Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!paladin.american.edu!darwin.sura.net!news-feed-1.peachnet.edu!gatech!swrinde!sdd.hp.com!decwrl!decwrl!uunet!pipex!doc.ic.ac.uk!agate!dog.ee.lbl.gov!hellgate.utah.edu!csn!teal.csn.org!et
From: et@teal.csn.org (Eric H. Taylor)
Subject: Re: Electronic Tesla Coils
Message-ID: <C4s0G8.Dxv@csn.org>
Followup-To: sci.electronics
Summary: Real World Applications
Keywords: tesla, coil, osc, flyback, transformers, wireless, emi, ac, ignition
Sender: Eric H. Taylor
Nntp-Posting-Host: teal.csn.org
Organization: 4-L Laboratories
References: <1993Mar23.040116.14355@norfolk.vak12ed.edu> <C4CntG.Jv4@spk.hp.com> <1993Mar25.161909.8110@wuecl.wustl.edu>
Distribution: World
Date: Wed, 31 Mar 1993 23:12:07 GMT
Expires: Fri, 30 Apr 1993 06:00:00 GMT
Lines: 48

In article <1993Mar25.161909.8110@wuecl.wustl.edu> dp@cec1.wustl.edu (David Prutchi) writes:
>In article <C4CntG.Jv4@spk.hp.com> long@spk.hp.com (Jerry Long) writes:
>>Fred W. Culpepper (fculpepp@norfolk.vak12ed.edu) wrote:
>>[...]
>>A couple of years ago I put together a Tesla circuit which
>>was published in an electronics magazine and could have been
>>the circuit which is referred to here. This one used a
>>flyback transformer from a tv onto which you wound your own
>>primary windings. It also used 2 power transistors in a TO 3
>[...]
>10 years ago I built a 1'000,000 volt Tesla, and the thing was VERY
>spectacular, but besides scaring/amazing friends (depending on their
>knowledge of Science), and generating strong EMI, I never found anything
>useful that could be done with it ...  Is there any real-world application
>for Tesla coils today ?
>
>David Prutchi

First of all, realize that Tesla invented AC power generators, motors,
transformers, conductors, etc. Technically, *ALL* transformers are Tesla
coils.  In general though when someone refers to a Tesla coil, they mean
an "air core resonant transformer". The TV flyback version Tesla
coil (see the _Encyclopedia_of_Electronic_Circuits_ V3, 106-1 for
diagram) has NOT an air core. It is of a class of circuit called
"Oscillating Shuttle Circuit" (OSC). Generally OSC's are highly
efficient, but this version uses transistors and resistors,
which are very lossy devices. Typically Tesla used active
reactances instead of passive resistors, so that he could achieve
efficiencies of 99.5%, and better. The usual application of an air-core
resonant transformer, or of an OSC, is to produce strong EMI
for wireless broadcasts. How well do you think your computer
screen would work if we removed the HF HV Tesla (flyback) coil
from it? If we were to remove from our homes and industries all
Tesla coils, our lights would go dark, our cars would sputter
and die, our radios would go silent, our industries would grind
to a halt, and we would have to go back to using coal for heat,
gas for lamps, horses for transportation, steam for power, and
telegraph for communication. Is that real world enough for you???????

GET THE MESSAGE! WE WOULD NOT HAVE 1/100 THE CONVIENIENCES WE HAVE
TODAY IF NOT FOR TESLA. GIVE CREDIT WHERE CREDIT IS DUE!

If it had been up to Edison, we'd still be in the 19th century.
(flame me at your own peril. I'm very good at putting edison down).

----
 ET   "Tesla was 100 years ahead of his time. Perhaps now his time comes".
----
Xref: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu rec.audio.car:9691 rec.audio:63217 sci.electronics:52758
Newsgroups: rec.audio.car,rec.audio,sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!emory!swrinde!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!infonode!ingr!b30news!catbyte.b30.ingr.com!dtmedin
From: dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com (Dave Medin)
Subject: Re: What is Zero dB????
Message-ID: <1993Apr5.214549.23508@b30news.b30.ingr.com>
Sender: usenet@b30news.b30.ingr.com (Usenet Feed)
Reply-To: dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com
Organization: Intergraph Corporation, Huntsville AL
References: <C4truE.6AA@ms.uky.edu> <sehari.733764410@vincent1.iastate.edu>
Date: Mon, 5 Apr 1993 21:45:49 GMT
Lines: 81

In article <sehari.733764410@vincent1.iastate.edu>, sehari@iastate.edu (Babak Sehari) writes:
|> In <C4truE.6AA@ms.uky.edu> msunde01@mik.uky.edu (Mark  Underwood) writes:
|> 
|> >I am somewhat familiar with the dB measurements as they apply to  
|> >electrical circuits - i.e. it is the gain of (for example) an amplifier  
|> >measured on a logarithmic scale.  However, this requires that you have a  
|> >reference value:  i.e the ouput is +20dB (e.g.) with respect to the input  
|> >signal.

<stuff deleted>

|> What you actually talking about here is dBm and not dB.  However, the terms
|> are used loosely by most people.  ``dBm'' is power with respact to 1mW, whereas
|> dB is a ratio.  Now, like these two English statement:
|>
|> 1.  I am doing well.
|> 2.  I am doing good.
|> 
|> Similarly, people usually use dB for dBm. Another common mistake is spelling
|> ``db'' instead of ``dB'' as you did in your article. See the ``B'' is for 
|> ``Bell'' company, the mother of AT&T and should be capitalized.
|> 
|>                           With highest regards,
|>                                Babak   Sehari.

Good gravy! Decibels are all *ratios.* The question that remains in
any ratio is the reference unit used. Sometimes, this will be a reference
power, such as 1 milliwatt (given a certain circuit impedance which
should also be included in the fine print or known, like 50 ohms
in an RF circuit of that impedance), leading to an accepted
notation of dBm. Maybe it might be dBV, disregarding the impedance of
the circuit and power developed, using 1 volt as reference *amplitude*
(rather than reference power). Or, it might have an arbitrary or omitted
reference that is not included in the notation, leading to just plain dB.
So. look at it this way--'dB' has an implied reference while notation
such as 'dBm' has an explicit reference.

For power:

  dB = 10*log( P(measured)/P(reference) )

For amplitude

  dB = 20*log( A(measured)/A(reference) )

'B' is for bel, which is a standard term for a log ratio to the base
10, named after Alexander Graham Bell. A 'deci' Bel is 1/10 of a bel.
It has nothing to do with the Bell Telephone company except for
the common founder's name. The small 'd'/large 'B' is per SI notation
convention. I don't know anyone that's been crucified for messing it up.

Common references for audio are:

        0 dBm = 1 milliwatt across 600 ohms
        0 dBV = 1 volt

        0 VU (a zero on the VU meter) = +4 dBm  (pro gear line level)
        0 VU = -10dBV   (consumer gear line level)


Often times, a power amp VU meter will be aligned using
the rated power of the amp as the 0 dB point. It is all
done to whatever reference is reasonable for the application
or moment.

Note that in a circuit with a given (and maybe unknown) linear
impedance, if the amplitude goes up so many decibels, the
power will also increase the same amount. This proof can be done
with the above two identities and ohm's law.

-- 
--------------------------------------------------------------------
       Dave Medin                       Phone:  (205) 730-3169 (w)
    SSD--Networking                             (205) 837-1174 (h)
    Intergraph Corp.
       M/S GD3004               Internet: dtmedin@catbyte.b30.ingr.com
  Huntsville, AL 35894          UUCP:  ...uunet!ingr!b30!catbyte!dtmedin

   ******* Everywhere You Look (at least around my office) *******

 * The opinions expressed here are mine (or those of my machine)
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!noc.near.net!howland.reston.ans.net!gatech!pitt.edu!alpha.smi.med.pitt.edu!fmg
From: fmg@alpha.smi.med.pitt.edu (Filip Gieszczykiewicz)
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Subject: FAQ - corrections
Summary: PCB correction, FTP site, etc
Message-ID: <8971@blue.cis.pitt.edu>
Date: 15 Apr 93 16:30:42 GMT
Sender: news+@pitt.edu
Followup-To: poster
Organization: Medical Informatics, Pittsburgh, PA USA
Lines: 29


        Greetings. I received a reply stating that unless someone else
        confirms that the following company is operating, I should
        remove it from my lst:

>PCB Prototypes of Sandy, UT
>Ronald Baker
>8195 South 2660 East
>Sandy, UT  84093
>Tel: [read below]
        
        This is from the COMM_PCB.FAQ (commercial PCB makers).

        Also, I don't have time to get the FAQ onto the sci.answers
        because of what I like to refer to is "red tape" - after the
        finals, I'll see what I can do... in the mean-time, anyone know
        of an FTP site that wouldn't mind a 250K file? :-)

        And last, I have some new entries for the SIMUSOFT list (mostly
        commercial/institutional stuff) but was wondering: should I keep
        the restrictions on the price of the software to be considered ->
        under $600 or should I include all those in 4 digit prices also?

        Take care.
-- 
/ Filip "I'll buy a vowel" Gieszczykiewicz. | Best e-mail "fmgst+@pitt.edu"  \
| All ideas are mine but they can be yours for only $0.99 so respond NOW!!!! | 
| I live for my EE major, winsurfing, programming, SCA, and assorted dreams. |
\ 200MB Drive - Linux has 100MB and MS-DOS has 100MB. MS-DOS is worried ;-)  /
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!gatech!howland.reston.ans.net!noc.near.net!bigboote.WPI.EDU!nntp!lancer
From: lancer@oconnor.WPI.EDU (Stephe Lewis Foskett)
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Subject: How do DI boxes work?
Date: 15 Apr 93 15:02:28
Organization: ZikZak Corporation
Lines: 19
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <LANCER.93Apr15150228@oconnor.WPI.EDU>
NNTP-Posting-Host: oconnor.wpi.edu


I'm doing sound for a couple of bands around here and we need Direct
Input boxes for the keyboards.  These are the little boxes that take a
line level out of the keyboard and transform it into low-Z for the run
to the mixer.  Sadly they cost like $50 (or more) each and I'm going
to need like 5 or 10 of them!  I looked inside one (belonging to
another band) and it looks like just a transformer.  Does anyone have
any plans for building them?  Perhaps in Anderton's "Electronic
Projects for Musicians" book (which I am having a hell of a time
tracking down...)?

Thanks a lot!

.s.

PS: Post or email.  I read this group...
--
- lancer@wpi.wpi.edu -                    - 0{{  MoDiMiDoFrSaSo: -
-   Mein Kopf ist ein Labyrinth, mein Leben ist ein Minenfeld    -
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!darwin.sura.net!udel!news.intercon.com!psinntp!megatest!mithril!alung
From: alung@megatest.com (Aaron Lung)
Subject: Re: what to do with old 256k SIMMs?
Message-ID: <C5JDF4.JH6@megatest.com>
Organization: Megatest Corporation
References: <120466@netnews.upenn.edu> <1993Apr15.100452.16793@csx.cciw.ca>
Date: Thu, 15 Apr 1993 17:52:25 GMT
Lines: 26

In article <1993Apr15.100452.16793@csx.cciw.ca> u009@csx.cciw.ca (G. Stewart Beal) writes:
>In article <120466@netnews.upenn.edu> jhaines@eniac.seas.upenn.edu (Jason Haines) writes:
>>
>>      I was wondering if people had any good uses for old
>>256k SIMMs.  I have a bunch of them for the Apple Mac
>>and I know lots of other people do to.  I have tried to
>>sell them but have gotten NO interest.
>>
>>      So, if you have an inovative use (or want to buy
>>some SIMMs  8-) ), I would be very interested in hearing
>>about it.
>>
>One of the guys at work takes 20 of them, uses cyano-acrylate glue to make
>five four-wide "panels" then constructs a box, with bottom, to use as a
>pencil holder.
>

Or, if you've got some entreprenuerial (sp?) spirit, get a cheapy
clear plastic box, mount the simm inside, and sell it as a 'Pet SIMM'!

I'm sure there are *plenty* of suckers out there who would go
for it!

aaron


Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!rochester!udel!bogus.sura.net!howland.reston.ans.net!spool.mu.edu!nigel.msen.com!sdd.hp.com!crash!cmkrnl!jeh
From: jeh@cmkrnl.com
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Subject: Electrical wiring FAQ (was: A question about 120VAC outlet wiring..
Message-ID: <1993Apr15.213330.1836@cmkrnl.com>
Date: 15 Apr 93 21:33:30 PDT
References: <1993Apr14.172145.27458@ecsvax.uncecs.edu>
Reply-To: wirefaq@ferret.ocunix.on.ca
Followup-To: poster
Keywords: 120 240 AC outlets wiring power shock gfci
Expires: 15 May 93 21:35:16 PDT
Distribution: world
Organization: Kernel Mode Systems, San Diego, CA
Lines: 1547

Since electrical wiring questions do turn up from time to time on
sci.electronics (and the answers aren't always apparent, even to those skilled
in electronics), I am hijacking the following FAQ and posting a copy here. 
I've asked the writers to cross-post to sci.electronics in the future. 

        --- jeh@cmkrnl.com


X-NEWS: cmkrnl news.answers: 6685
Newsgroups: misc.consumers.house,rec.woodworking,news.answers,misc.answers,rec.answers
Subject: Electrical Wiring FAQ
Message-ID: <wirefaq_733900891@ecicrl>
From: clewis@ferret.ocunix.on.ca (Chris Lewis)
Date: 4 Apr 93 05:21:49 GMT
Reply-To: wirefaq@ferret.ocunix.on.ca (Wiring FAQ commentary reception)
Followup-To: poster
Expires: 2 May 93 05:21:31 GMT
Organization: Elegant Communications Inc., Ottawa, Canada
Summary: A series of questions and answers about house wiring
Approved: news-answers-request@mit.edu
Supersedes: <wirefaq_732691289@ecicrl>
Lines: 1524

Archive-name: electrical-wiring
Last-modified: Sun Feb 21 16:56:10 EST 1993

            Frequently Asked Questions on Electrical Wiring

                Steven Bellovin (smb@ulysses.att.com)
                Chris Lewis (clewis@ferret.ocunix.on.ca)

            Comments to (automatic if you reply to this article):
                    wirefaq@ferret.ocunix.on.ca

This FAQ is formatted as a digest.  Most news readers can
skip from one question to the next by pressing ^G.

Answers to many other topics related to houses can be obtained from
the misc.consumers.house archive; send an empty piece of mail to
house-archive@dg-rtp.dg.com for information.

Changes to previous issue marked with "|" in left column.  Watch
particularly for "NEW" in the Questions list for new or substantively
changed answers.

Note that this is now a registered FAQ - cross-posted to news.answers
and should appear in the FAQ list of lists.

Subject: Questions answered in this FAQ

        Introduction/Disclaimers
        What is the NEC?  Where can I get a copy?
        What is the CEC?  Where can I get a copy?
        Can I do my own wiring?  Extra pointers?
        What do I need in the way of tools?
        What is UL listing?
        What is CSA approval?
        Are there any cheaper, easier to read books on wiring?
        Inspections how and what?  Why should I get my wiring inspected?
        My house doesn't meet some of these rules and regulations.
        A word on voltages: 110/115/117/120/125/220/240
        What does an electrical service look like?
        What is a circuit?
        "grounding" versus "grounded" versus "neutral".
        What does a fuse or breaker do?  What are the differences?
        Breakers?  Can't I use fuses?
        What size wire should I use?
        Where do these numbers come from?
        What does "14-2" mean?
        What is a "wirenut"/"marrette"/"marr connector".  How are they used?
        What is a GFI/GFCI?
        Where should GFCIs be used?
        Where shouldn't I use a GFCI?
        What is the difference between a GFCI outlet and a GFCI breaker?
        What's the purpose of the ground prong on an outlet, then?
        Why is one prong wider than the other?  Polarization
        What kind of outlets do I need in a kitchen?
        Where must outlets and switches be in bathrooms?
        What is Romex/NM/NMD?  What is BX?  When should I use each?
        Should I use plastic or metal boxes?
        Junction box positioning?
        Can I install a replacement fixture?
        What does it mean when the lights brighten when a motor starts?
        What is 3 phase power?  Should I use it?  Can I get it in my house?
        Is it better to run motors at 110 or 220?
        What is this nonsense about 3HP on 110V 15A circuits?
        How do I convert two prong receptacles to three prong?
        Are you sure about GFCIs and ungrounded outlets?
            Should the test button work?
        How should I wire my shop?
        Underground wiring
        Aluminum wiring
        I'm buying a house!  What should I do?
        What is this weird stuff?  Old style wiring
        Where do I buy stuff?


Subject: Introduction/Disclaimers

        Although we've done a fair bit of wiring, we are not
        electricians, and we cannot be responsible for what you do.  If
        you're at all uncertain about what is correct or safe, *don't
        do it*.  Contact someone qualified -- a licensed electrician,
        or your local electrical inspector.  Electricity is no joke;
        mistakes can result in shocks, fires, or electrocution.

        Furthermore, our discussion is based on the U.S. National
        Electrical Code (NEC) and the Canadian Electrical code (CEC).
        To the best of our abilities, we have confirmed every detail
        with the electrical code, but we don't quote sections
        simply to keep this thing readable.  If you think we're wrong,
        we invite you to correct us, but please - quote references!

        The NEC and the CEC do not, in and of themselves, have the
        force of law.  Many municipalities adopt it en toto.  Others,
        however, do not.  Check your with your local building
        department (and <provincial> Hydro Inspection Offices in
        Canada) to find out what applies in your area.  Also,
        your local electrical utility may also have special requirements
        for electrical service installation.  Bear in mind, too, that
        we say here applies primarily to ordinary single-family
        residences.  Multi-family dwellings, mobile homes, commercial
        establishments, etc., are sometimes governed by different
        rules.

        Also note that, contrary to popular belief in the U.S. (and in
        some parts of Canada), Canada is not a wholly-owned subsidiary
        of the U.S.  Consequently, the NEC does not apply in Canada.
        Lots of things are the same, including voltages, line
        frequencies, and the laws of physics.  But there are a number
        of crucial differences in the regulations.  Where we can, we've
        noted them, flagging the relevant passages with ``NEC'' or
        ``CEC''.

        Remember that the CEC and NEC are minimal standards.  It is often
        smart to go beyond their minimal requirements.

Subject: What is the NEC?  Where can I get a copy?

        The NEC is a model electrical code devised and published by the
        National Fire Protection Association, an insurance industry group.
        It's revised every three years.  The 1993 version has been released.
        You can buy a copy at a decent bookstore, or by calling them directly
        at 800-344-3555.  The code exists in several versions.  There's the
        full text, which is fairly incomprehensible.  There's an abridged
        edition, which has only the sections likely to apply to most houses.
        And there's the NEC Handbook, which contains the ``authorized
        commentary'' on the code, as well as the full text.  That's the
        recommended version.  Unfortunately, there's no handbook for
        the abridged edition.  And the full handbook is expensive --
        US$65 plus shipping and handling.

Subject: What is the CEC?  Where can I get a copy?

        The Canadian Standards Association is an organization made up
        of various government agencies, power utilities, insurance
        companies, electrical manufacturers and other organizations.
        The CSA publishes CSA Standard C22.1 which is updated every two
        or three years.  Each province adopts, with some amendments,
        this standard and publishes a province-specific code book.
        Since each province publishes its own slightly modified
        standard, it would be somewhat confusing to obtain the CSA
        standard itself.  In this FAQ, "CEC" really means the
        appropriate provincial standard.  In particular, this FAQ is
        derived from the Ontario Hydro Electrical Safety Code, 20th
        edition (1990).  Which is in turn based on CSA C22.1-1990 (16th
        edition).  While differences exist between the provinces, an
        attempt has been made to avoid specific-to-Ontario detail.

        The appropriate provincial code can be obtained from electrical
        inspection offices of your provincial power authority.  In
        Ontario, it's Ontario Hydro.  The Ontario Hydro book isn't
        overly fat.  It's about C$25, and includes mailed updates.  I
        hear that these standards are somewhat easier to read than the
        equivalent NEC publications.

        Don't bother asking in Quebec - DIY wiring is banned throughout
        the province.

Subject: Can I do my own wiring?  Extra pointers?

        In most places, homeowners are allowed to do their own wiring.
        In some, they're not.  Check with your local electrical
        inspector.  Most places won't permit you to do wiring on other's
        homes for money without a license.  Nor are you permitted to do
        wiring in "commercial" buildings.  Multiple dwellings (eg: duplexes)
        are usually considered "semi-commercial" or "commercial".  However,
        many jurisdictions will permit you to work on semi-commercial
        wiring if you're supervised by a licensed electrician - if you can
        find one willing to supervise.

        If you do your own wiring, an important point:

        Do it NEAT and WELL!  What you really want to aim for is a better
        job than an electrician will do.  After all, it's your own home,
        and it's you or your family that might get killed if you make
        a mistake.  An electrician has time pressures, has the skills
        and knows the tricks of the trade to do a fast, safe job.
        In this FAQ we've consciously given a few recommendations that
        are in excess of code, because we feel that it's reasonable,
        and will impress the inspector.

        The inspector will know that you're an amateur.  You have to
        earn his trust.  The best way of doing this is to spend your
        time doing as neat a job as possible.  Don't cut corners.
        Exceed specifications.  Otherwise, the inspector may get extremely
        picky and fault you on the slightest transgressions.

        Don't try to hide anything from the inspector.

        Use the proper tools.  Ie: don't use a bread knife to strip
        wires, or twist wires with your fingers.  The inspector
        won't like it, and the results won't be that safe.  And it
        takes longer.  And you're more likely to stick a hunk of
        12ga wire through your hand that way.

        Don't handle house wire when it's very cold (eg: below -10C
        or 16F).  Thermoplastic house wire, particularly older types
        become very brittle.

Subject: What do I need in the way of tools?

        First, there's the obvious -- a hammer, a drill, a few
        screwdrivers, both straight and Phillips-head.  If you're 
        lucky enough to live in Canada (or find a source of CSA-approved
        devices) you need Robertson ("square recess") screwdrivers
        (#1 and #2) instead of phillips.

        For drilling a few holes, a 3/4" or 1" spade bit and 1/4" or
        3/8" electric drill will do.  If you're doing a lot, or
        are working with elderly lumber, we recommend a 1/2" drill
        (right-angle drills are wonderful.  Can be rented) and
        3/4" or 1" screw-point auger drill bits.  These bits pull
        you through, so they're much faster and less fatiguing, even
        in 90 year old hardwood timbers.

        Screw-driver bits are useful for drills, expecially if you
        install your electrical boxes using screws (drywall screws
        work well).
        
        For stripping wire, use a real wire stripper, not a knife or
        ordinary wire cutters.  Don't buy the $3 K-mart "combo stripper,
        crimper and bottle opener" types.  You should expect to pay
        $15 to $20 for a good "plier-type" pair.  It will have sized
        stripping holes, and won't nick or grab the wire - it should
        be easy to strip wire with it.  One model has a small hole in the
        blade for forming exact wire loops for screw terminals.  There
        are fancier types (autostrip/cut), but they generally aren't
        necessary, and pros usually don't use them.

        A pair of diagonal side cutter pliers are useful for clipping ends
        in constricted places.  Don't use these for stripping wire.

        You will need linesman pliers for twisting wires for wire nuts.

        You should have a pair of needle-nose pliers for fiddling
        inside boxes and closing loops, but it's better to form wire
        loops with a "loop former hole" on your wire stripper - more
        accurate.

        If you're using non-metallic cable, get a cable stripper for
        removing the sheath.  Or, do what some pros do, they nick the
        end of the sheath, grab the ground wire with a pair of pliers,
        and simply rip the sheath back using the ground wire as a
        "zipper", and cut the sheath off.  You shouldn't try to strip
        the sheath with a knife point, because it's too easy to
        slash the insulation on the conductors.  Apparently Stanley
        utility knives fitted with linoleum cutters (hooked blades)
        can be used to strip sheath, but there is still the possibility
        that you'll gouge the conductors.

        For any substantial amount of work with armored cable, it's well
        worth your while to invest in a rotary cable splitter (~US$ 18).
        Hack saws are tricky to use without cutting into the wire
        or the insulation.

        Three-prong outlet testers are a quick check for properly-wired
        outlets.  About $6.  Multimeters tell you more, but are a lot more
        expensive, and probably not worth it for most people.  A simple
        voltage sensor, which can detect potential through an insulated
        wire not supplying any devices, is extremely helpful; they cost
        about US$ 10 at Radio Shack.

        You should have a voltage detector - to check that the wires are
        dead before doing work on them.  Neon-bulb version are cheap ($2-3)
        and work well.  If you get more serious, a "audible alarm" type is
        good for tracing circuits without a helper.  (Though I've been known
        to lock the drill on, and hit breakers until the scream stops ;-)

        For running wires through existing walls, you need fish tape.
        Often, two tapes are needed, though sometimes, a bent hanger or
        a length of thin chain will suffice.  Fish tapes can be rented.

        Electrical tape.  Lots of it ;-)  Seriously, a good and competent
        wiring job will need very little tape.  The tape is useful for
        wrapping dicy insulation in repair work.  Another use is to wrap 
        around the body of outlets and switches to cover the termination
        screws - I don't do this, but drywall contractors prefer it (to
        prevent explosions when the drywall knife collides with a live outlet
        that has no cover plate).

Subject: What is UL listing?

        The UL stands for "Underwriters Laboratory".  It used to be
        an Insurance Industry organization, but now it is independent
        and non-profit.  It tests electrical components and equipment
        for potential hazards.  When something is UL-listed, that means
        that the UL has tested the device, and it meets their requirements
        for safety - ie: fire or shock hazard.  It doesn't necessarily
        mean that the device actually does what it's supposed to, just
        that it probably won't kill you.

        The UL does not have power of law in the U.S. -- you are
        permitted to buy and install non-UL-listed devices.  However,
        insurance policies sometimes have clauses in them that will
        limit their liability in case of a claim made in response to
        the failure of a non-UL-listed device.  Furthermore, in
        many situations the NEC will require that a wiring component
        used for a specific purpose is UL-listed for that purpose.
        Indirectly, this means that certain parts of your wiring
        must be UL-listed before an inspector will approve it and/or
        occupancy permits issued.
        
Subject: What is CSA approval?

        Every electrical device or component must be certified by the
        Canadian Standards Association before it can be sold in
        Canada.  Implicit in this is that all wiring must be done
        with CSA-approved materials.  They perform testing similar to
        the UL (a bit more stringent), except that CSA approval is
        required by law.

        Again, like the UL, if a fire was caused by non-CSA-approved
        equipment, your insurance company may not have to pay the
        claim.

        In Canada, there is a branch organization of the UL, called ULC
        (UL of Canada).  ULC does not have power of law, and seems to
        be more a liason group between the CSA and insurance
        companies.

Subject: Are there any cheaper, easier to read books on wiring?

        USA: The following three books were suggested by our readers

            Residential Wiring
            by Jeff Markell,
            Craftsman Books,
            Carlsbad CA for $18.25. ISBN 0-934041-19-9.

            Practical Electrical Wiring
            Residential, Farm and Industrial,  Based on the National
            Electrical Code    ANSI/NFPA 70
            Herbert P. Richter and W. Creighton Schwan
            McGraw-Hill Book Co.

            Wiring Simplified
            H. P. Richter and W. C. Schwan
            Park Publishing Co.
        
        Try to make sure that the book is based on the latest NEC
        revision.  Which is currently 1990.

        Canada: P.S. Knight authors and publishes a book called
        "Electrical Code Simplified".  There appears to be a version
        published specific to each province, and is very tied into the
        appropriate provincial code.  It focuses on residential wiring,
        and is indispensible for Canadian DIY'ers.  It is better to get
        this book than the CEC unless you do a lot of wiring (or answer
        questions on the net ;-).

        It is updated each time the provincial codes are.  This book is
        available at all DIY and hardware stores for less than C$10.

Subject: Inspections how and what?  Why should I get my wiring inspected?

        Most jurisdictions require that you obtain a permit and
        inspections of any wiring that is done.  Amongst other more
        mundane bureaucratic reasons (like insurance companies not
        liking to have to pay claims), a permit and inspections
        provides some assurance that you, your family, your neighbors
        or subsequent owners of your home don't get killed or lose
        their homes one night due to a sloppy wiring job.

        Most jurisdictions have the power to order you to vacate your
        home, or order you to tear out any wiring done without a
        permit.  California, for instance, is particularly nasty about
        this.

        If fire starts in your home, and un-inspected wiring is at
        fault, insurance companies will often refuse to pay the damage
        claims.

        In general, the process goes like this:
                - you apply to your local inspections office or building
                  department for a permit.  You should have a sketch or
                  detailed drawing of what you plan on doing.  This is
                  a good time to ask questions on any things you're not
                  sure of.  If you're doing major work, they may impose
                  special conditions on you, require loading
                  calculations and ask other questions.  At this point
                  they will tell you which inspections you will need.
                - If you're installing a main panel, you will need to
                  have the panel and service connections inspected
                  before your power utility will provide a connection.
                  This is sometimes done by the local power authority
                  rather than the usual inspectors.
                - After installing the boxes and wiring, but before
                  the insulation/walls go up, you will need a
                  "rough-in" inspection.
                - After the walls are up, and the wiring is complete,
                  you will need a "final inspection".

Subject: My house doesn't meet some of these rules and regulations.
        Do I have to upgrade?

        In general, there is no requirement to upgrade older dwellings,
        though there are some exceptions (ie: smoke detectors in some
        cases).  However, any new work must be done according to the
        latest electrical code.  Also, if you do ``major'' work, you
        may be required to upgrade certain existing portions or all
        of your system.  Check with your local electrical inspector.

Subject: A word on voltages: 110/115/117/120/125/220/240

        One thing where things might get a bit confusing is the
        different numbers people bandy about for the voltage of
        a circuit.  One person might talk about 110V, another 117V
        or another 120V.  These are all, in fact, exactly the same
        thing...  In North America the utility companies are required
        to supply a split-phase 240 volt (+-5%) feed to your house.
        This works out as two 120V +- 5% legs.  Additionally, since there
        are resistive voltage drops in the house wiring, it's not
        unreasonable to find 120V has dropped to 110V or 240V has dropped
        to 220V by the time the power reaches a wall outlet.  Especially
        at the end of an extension cord or long circuit run.  For a number
        of reasons, some historical, some simple personal orneryness,
        different people choose call them by slightly different numbers.
        This FAQ has chosen to be consistent with calling them "110V" and
        "220V", except when actually saying what the measured voltage will
        be.  Confusing?  A bit.  Just ignore it.

        One thing that might make this a little more understandable
        is that the nameplates on equipment ofen show the lower (ie: 110V
        instead of 120V) value.  What this implies is that the device
        is designed to operate properly when the voltage drops that
        low.

        208V is *not* the same as 240V.  208V is the voltage between
        phases of a 3-phase "Y" circuit that is 120V from neutral to any
        hot.   480V is the voltage between phases of a 3-phase "Y"
        circuit that's 277V from hot to neutral.

        In keeping with 110V versus 120V strangeness, motors intended
        to run on 480V three phase are often labelled as 440V...

Subject: What does an electrical service look like?

        There are logically four wires involved with supplying the
        main panel with power.  Three of them will come from the utility
        pole, and a fourth (bare) wire comes from elsewhere.

        The bare wire is connected to one or more long metal bars pounded
        into the ground, or to a wire buried in the foundation, or sometimes
        to the water supply pipe (has to be metal, continuous to where
        the main water pipe entering the house.  Watch out for galvanic
        action conductivity "breaks" (often between copper and iron pipe)).
        This is the "grounding conductor".  It is there to make sure that
        the third prong on your outlets is connected to ground.  This wire
        normally carries no current.

        One of the other wires will be white (or black with white or
        yellow stripes, or sometimes simply black).  It is the neutral wire.
        It is connected to the "centre tap" (CEC; "center tap" in the
        NEC) of the distribution transformer supplying the power.  It
        is connected to the grounding conductor in only one place (often
        inside the panel).  The neutral and ground should not be connected
        anywhere else.  Otherwise, weird and/or dangerous things may happen.

        Furthermore, there should only be one grounding system in
        a home.  Some codes require more than one grounding electrode.
        These will be connected together, or connected to the neutral
        at a common point - still one grounding system.  Adding additional
        grounding electrodes connected to other portions of the house
        wiring is unsafe and contrary to code.

        If you add a subpanel, the ground and neutral are usually
        brought as separate conductors from the main panel, and are
        not connected together in the subpanel (ie: still only one
        neutral-ground connection).  However, in some situations 
        (certain categories of separate buildings) you actually do
        have to provide a second grounding electrode - consult your
        inspector.

        The other two wires will usually be black, and are the "hot"
        wires.  They are attached to the distribution transformer as
        well.

        The two black wires are 180 degrees out of phase with each
        other.  This means if you connect something to both hot wires,
        the voltage will be 220 volts.  If you connect something to the
        white and either of the two blacks you will get 110V.

        Some panels seem to only have three wires coming into them.
        This is either because the neutral and ground are connected
        together at a different point (eg: the meter or pole) and one
        wire is doing dual-duty as both neutral and ground, or in some
        rare occasions, the service has only one hot wire (110V only
        service).

Subject: What is a circuit?

        Inside the panel, connections are made to the incoming wires.
        These connections are then used to supply power to selected
        portions of the home.  There are three different combinations:
                1) one hot, one neutral, and ground: 110V circuit.
                2) two hots, no neutral, and ground: 220V circuit.
                3) two hots, neutral, and ground: 220V circuit + neutral,
                   and/or two 110V circuits with a common neutral.

        (1) is used for most circuits supplying receptacles and
        lighting within your house.  (3) is usually used for supplying
        power to major appliances such as stoves, and dryers - they
        often have need for both 220V and 110V, or for bringing several
        circuits from the panel box to a distribution point.  (2) is
        usually for special 220V motor circuits, electric heaters, or
        air conditioners.

        [Note: In the US, the NEC frequently permits a circuit similar
        to (2) be used for stoves and dryers - namely, that there
        are two hot wires, and a wire that does dual duty as neutral
        and ground, and is connected to the frame as well as providing
        the neutral for 110V purposes - three prong plugs instead
        of four (*only* for stoves/dryers connected to the main panel.
        When connected to most sub-panels, 4 prong plugs and receptacles
        are required).  In our not-so-humble opinion this is crazy, but
        the NFPA claims that this practice was re-evaluated for the 1992 NEC,
        and found to be safe.  Check your local codes, or inquire as to
        local practice -- there are restrictions on when this is
        permissible.]

        (1) is usually wired with three conductor wire: black for hot,
        white for neutral, and bare for grounding.

        (2) and (3) have one hot wire coloured red, the other black, a
        bare wire for grounding, and in (3) a white wire for neutral.

        You will sometimes see (2) wired with just a black, white and ground
        wire.  Since the white is "hot" in this case, both the NEC and CEC
        requires that the white wire be "permanently marked" at the ends
        to indicate that it is a live wire.  Usually done with paint, nail
        polish or sometimes electrical tape.

        Each circuit is attached to the main wires coming into the
        panel through a circuit breaker or fuse.

        There are, in a few locales, circuits that look like (1), (2)
        or (3) except that they have two bare ground wires.  Some places
        require this for hot tubs and the like (one ground is "frame ground",
        the other attaches to the motor).  This may or may not be an
        alternative to GFCI protection.

Subject: "grounding" versus "grounded" versus "neutral".

        According to the terminology in the CEC and NEC, the
        "grounding" conductor is for the safety ground, i.e., the green
        or bare wire.  The word "neutral" is reserved for the white when
        you have a circuit with more than one "hot" wire.  Since the white
        wire is connected to neutral and the grounding conductor inside the
        panel, the proper term is "grounded conductor".  However, the
        potential confusion between "grounded conductor" and "grounding
        conductor" can lead to potentially lethal mistakes - you should
        never use the bare wire as a "grounded conductor" or white wire
        as the "grounding conductor", even though they are connected
        together in the panel.

        [But not in subpanels - subpanels are fed neutral and ground
        separately from the main panel.  Usually.]

        In the trade, and in common usage, the word "neutral" is used
        for "grounded conductor".  This FAQ uses "neutral" simply to
        avoid potential confusion.  We recommend that you use "neutral"
        too.  Thus the white wire is always (except in some light
        switch applications) neutral.  Not ground.

Subject: What does a fuse or breaker do?  What are the differences?

        Fuses and circuit breakers are designed to interrupt the power
        to a circuit when the current flow exceeds safe levels.  For
        example, if your toaster shorts out, a fuse or breaker should
        "trip", protecting the wiring in the walls from melting.  As
        such, fuses and breakers are primarily intended to protect the
        wiring -- UL or CSA approval supposedly indicates that the
        equipment itself won't cause a fire.

        Fuses contain a narrow strip of metal which is designed to melt
        (safely) when the current exceeds the rated value, thereby
        interrupting the power to the circuit.  Fuses trip relatively
        fast.  Which can sometimes be a problem with motors which have
        large startup current surges.  For motor circuits, you can use
        a "time-delay" fuse (one brand is "fusetron") which will avoid
        tripping on momentary overloads.  A fusetron looks like a
        spring-loaded fuse.  A fuse can only trip once, then it must be
        replaced.

        Breakers are fairly complicated mechanical devices.  They
        usually consist of one spring loaded contact which is latched
        into position against another contact.  When the current flow
        through the device exceeds the rated value, a bimetallic strip
        heats up and bends.  By bending it "trips" the latch, and the
        spring pulls the contacts apart.  Circuit breakers behave
        similarly to fusetrons - that is, they tend to take longer to
        trip at moderate overloads than ordinary fuses.  With high
        overloads, they trip quickly.  Breakers can be reset a finite
        number of times - each time they trip, or are thrown
        when the circuit is in use, some arcing takes place, which
        damages the contacts.  Thus, breakers should not be used in
        place of switches unless they are specially listed for the
        purpose.

        Neither fuses nor breakers "limit" the current per se.  A dead
        short on a circuit can cause hundreds or sometimes even
        thousands of amperes to flow for a short period of time, which
        can often cause severe damage.

Subject: Breakers?  Can't I use fuses?

        Statistics show that fuse panels have a significantly higher
        risk of causing a fire than breaker panels.  This is usually
        due to the fuse being loosely screwed in, or the contacts
        corroding and heating up over time, or the wrong size fuse
        being installed, or the proverbial "replace the fuse with a
        penny" trick.

        Since breakers are more permanently installed, and have better
        connection mechanisms, the risk of fire is considerably less.

        Fuses are prone to explode under extremely high overload.  When
        a fuse explodes, the metallic vapor cloud becomes a conducting
        path.  Result? from complete meltdown of the electrical panel,
        melted service wiring, through fires in the electrical
        distribution transformer and having your house burn down.
        Breakers don't do this.

        Many jurisdictions, particularly in Canada, no longer permit
        fuse panels in new installations.  The NEC does permit new
        fuse panels in some rare circumstances (requiring the special
        inserts to "key" the fuseholder to specific size fuses)

        Some devices, notably certain large air conditioners, require fuse
        protection in addition to the breaker at the panel.  The fuse
        is there to protect the motor windings from overload.  Check the
        labeling on the unit.  This is usually only on large permanently
        installed motors.  The installation instructions will tell you
        if you need one.

Subject: What size wire should I use?

        For a 20 amp circuit, use 12 gauge wire.  For a 15 amp circuit,
        you can use 14 gauge wire (in most locales).  For a long run,
        though, you should use the next larger size wire, to avoid
        voltage drops.  12 gauge is only slightly more expensive than
        14 gauge, though it's stiffer and harder to work with.

        Here's a quick table for normal situations.  Go up a size for
        more than 100 foot runs, when the cable is in conduit, or
        ganged with other wires in a place where they can't dissipate
        heat easily:

                Gauge           Amps
                14              15
                12              20
                10              30
                8               40
                6               65
        
        We don't list bigger sizes because it starts getting very dependent
        on the application and precise wire type.

Subject: Where do these numbers come from?

        There are two considerations, voltage drop and heat buildup.
        The smaller the wire is, the higher the resistance is.  When
        the resistance is higher, the wire heats up more, and there is
        more voltage drop in the wiring.  The former is why you need
        higher-temperature insulation and/or bigger wires for use in
        conduit; the latter is why you should use larger wire for long
        runs.

        Neither effect is very significant over very short distances.
        There are some very specific exceptions, where use of smaller
        wire is allowed.  The obvious one is the line cord on most
        lamps.  Don't try this unless you're certain that your use fits
        one of those exceptions; you can never go wrong by using larger
        wire.

Subject: What does "14-2" mean?

        This is used to describe the size and quantity of conductors
        in a cable.  The first number specifies the gauge.  The second
        the number of current carrying conductors in the wire - but
        remember there's usually an extra ground wire.  "14-2" means
        14 gauge, two insulated current carrying wires, plus bare ground.

        -2 wire usually has a black, white and bare ground wire.  Sometimes
        the white is red instead for 220V circuits without neutral.  In
        the latter case, the sheath is usually red too.

        -3 wire usually has a black, red, white and bare ground wire.
        Usually carrying 220V with neutral.

Subject: What is a "wirenut"/"marrette"/"marr connector"?  How are they
        used?

        A wire nut is a cone shaped threaded plastic thingummy that's used
        to connect wires together.  "Marrette" or "Marr connector"
        are trade names.  You'll usually use a lot of them in DIY wiring.

        In essence, you strip the end of the wires about an inch, twist them
        together, then twist the wirenut on.

        Though some wirenuts advertise that you don't need to twist the
        wire, do it anyways - it's more mechanically and electrically
        secure.

        There are many different sizes of wire nut.  You should check
        that the wire nut you're using is the correct size for the
        quantity and sizes of wire you're connecting together.

        Don't just gimble the wires together with a pair of pliers or
        your fingers.  Use a pair of blunt nose ("linesman") pliers,
        and carefully twist the wires tightly and neatly.  Sometimes
        it's a good idea to trim the resulting end to make sure it
        goes in the wirenut properly.

        Some people wrap the "open" end of the wirenut with electrical
        tape.  This is probably not a good idea - the inspector may
        tear it off during an inspection.  It's usually done because
        a bit of bare wire is exposed outside the wire nut - instead
        of taping it, the connection should be redone.

Subject: What is a GFI/GFCI?

        A GFCI is a ``ground-fault circuit interrupter''.  It measures
        the current current flowing through the hot wire and the
        neutral wire.  If they differ by more than a few milliamps, the
        presumption is that current is leaking to ground via some other
        path.  This may be because of a short circuit to the chassis of
        an appliance, or to the ground lead, or through a person.  Any
        of these situations is hazardous, so the GFCI trips, breaking
        the circuit.

        GFCIs do not protect against all kinds of electric shocks.  If,
        for example, you simultaneously touched the hot and neutral
        leads of a circuit, and no part of you was grounded, a GFCI
        wouldn't help.  All of the current that passed from the hot
        lead into you would return via the neutral lead, keeping the
        GFCI happy.

        The two pairs of connections on a GFCI outlet are not symmetric.
        One is labeled LOAD; the other, LINE.  The incoming power feed
        *must* be connected to the LINE side, or the outlet will not be
        protected.  The LOAD side can be used to protect all devices
        downstream from it.  Thus, a whole string of outlets can be
        covered by a single GFCI outlet.

Subject: Where should GFCIs be used?

        The NEC mandates GFCIs for 110V, 15A or 20A single phase
        outlets, in bathrooms, kitchens within 6' of the sink, garages,
        unfinished basements or crawl spaces, outdoors, near a pool, or
        just about anywhere else where you're likely to encounter water
        or dampness.  There are exceptions for inaccessible outlets,
        those dedicated to appliances ``occupying fixed space'',
        typically refrigerators and freezers, and for sump pumps and
        laundry appliances.

        The CEC does not mandate as many GFCIs.  In particular, there
        is no requirement to protect kitchen outlets, or most garage or
        basement outlets.  Basement outlets must be protected if you
        have a dirt floor, garage outlets if they're near the door to
        outside.  Bathrooms and most exterior outlets must have GFCIs.

        Even if you are not required to have GFCI protection, you may
        want to consider installing it anyway.  Unless you need a GFCI
        breaker (see below), the cost is low.  In the U.S., GFCI
        outlets can cost as little as US$8.  (Costs are a bit higher in
        Canada:  C$12.)  Evaluate your own risk factors.  Does your
        finished basement ever get wet?  Do you have small children?
        Do you use your garage outlets to power outdoor tools?  Does
        water or melted snow ever puddle inside your garage?

Subject: Where shouldn't I use a GFCI?

        GFCIs are generally not used on circuits that (a) don't pose a
        safety risk, and (b) are used to power equipment that must run
        unattended for long periods of time.  Refrigerators, freezers,
        and sump pumps are good examples.  The rationale is that GFCIs
        are sometimes prone to nuisance trips.  Some people claim that
        the inductive delay in motor windings can cause a momentary
        current imbalance, tripping the GFCI.  Note, though, that most
        GFCI trips are real; if you're getting a lot of trips for no
        apparent reason, you'd be well-advised to check your wiring
        before deciding that the GFCI is broken or useless.

Subject: What is the difference between a GFCI outlet and a GFCI breaker?

        For most situations, you can use either a GFCI outlet as the
        first device on the circuit, or you can install a breaker with
        a built-in GFCI.  The former is generally preferred, since GFCI
        breakers are quite expensive.  For example, an ordinary GE
        breaker costs ~US$5; the GFCI model costs ~US$35.  There is one
        major exception:  if you need to protect a ``multi-wire branch
        circuit'' (two or more circuits sharing a common neutral wire),
        such as a Canadian-style kitchen circuit, you'll need a
        multi-pole GFCI breaker.  Unfortunately, these are expensive;
        the cost can range into the hundreds of dollars, depending on
        what brand of panel box you have.  But if you must protect such
        a circuit (say, for a pool heater), you have no choice.

        One more caveat -- GFCI outlets are bulky.  You may want to use
        an oversize box when installing them.  On second thought, use
        large (actually deep) boxes everywhere.  You'll thank yourself for it.

        Incidentally, if you're installing a GFCI to ensure that one
        specific outlet is protected (such as a bathroom), you don't
        really have to go to all of the trouble to find the first
        outlet in the circuit, you could simply find the first outlet
        in the bathroom, and not GFCI anything upstream of it.  But
        protecting the whole circuit is preferred.

        When you install a GFCI, it's a good idea to use the little
        "ground fault protected" stickers that come with it and mark
        the outlets downstream of the GFCI.  You can figure out which
        outlets are "downstream", simply by tripping the GFCI with the
        test button and see which outlets are dead.

Subject: What's the purpose of the ground prong on an outlet, then?

        Apart from their use in electronics, which we won't comment on,
        and for certain fluorescent lights (they won't turn on without
        a good ground connection), they're intended to guard against
        insulation failures within the device.  Generally, the case of
        the appliance is connected to the ground lead.  If there's an
        insulation failure that shorts the hot lead to the case, the
        ground lead conducts the electricity away safely (and possibly
        trips the circuit breaker in the process).  If the case is not
        grounded and such a short occurs, the case is live -- and if
        you touch it while you're grounded, you'll get zapped.  Of
        course, if the circuit is GFCI-protected, it will be a very
        tiny zap -- which is why you can use GFCIs to replace
        ungrounded outlets (both NEC and CEC).

        There are some appliances that should *never* be grounded.  In
        particular, that applies to toasters and anything else with
        exposed conductors.  Consider:  if you touch the heating
        electrode in a toaster, and you're not grounded, nothing will
        happen.  If you're slightly grounded, you'll get a small shock;
        the resistance will be too high.  But if the case were
        grounded, and you were holding it, you'd be the perfect path to
        ground...

Subject: Why is one prong wider than the other?  Polarization

        Nowadays, many two-prong devices have one prong wider than the
        other.  This is so that the device could rely (not guaranteed!)
        on one specific wire being neutral, and the other hot.
        This is particularly advantageous in light fixtures, where the
        the shell should neutral (safety), or other devices which want to
        have an approximate ground reference (ie: some radios).

        Most 2-prong extension cords have wide prongs too.

        This requires that you wire your outlets and plugs the right
        way around.  You want the wide prong to be neutral, and the
        narrow one hot.  Most outlets have a darker metal for the
        hot screw, and lighter coloured screw for the neutral.
        If not, you can usually figure out which is which by which
        prong the terminating screw connects to.

Subject: What kind of outlets do I need in a kitchen?

        The NEC requires at least two 20 amp ``small appliance
        circuits'' for kitchens.  The CEC requires split-duplex
        receptacles.  Outlets must be installed such that no point is more
        than 24" (NEC) (900 mm CEC) from an outlet.  Every counter wider
        than 12" (NEC) or 300 mm (CEC) must have at least one outlet.
        The circuit these outlets are on may not feed any outlets except
        in the kitchen, pantry, or dining room.  Furthermore, these circuits
        are in addition to any required for refrigerators, stoves, microwaves,
        lighting, etc.  Non-dedicated outlets within 6' of a sink *must* be
        protected by a GFCI (NEC only).

        Split duplex receptacles are fed with a 220V circuit.  The tab
        is broken on the hot side of the outlet, and one hot goes to
        the upper outlet, and the other hot goes to the lower outlet.
        The neutral connects to both outlets through one screw.  When
        "carrying through" to another outlet, the neutral must be
        pigtailed, such that removing the outlet, or having the neutral
        connection fall off doesn't cause the neutral to disconnect
        from downstream outlets.

Subject: Where must outlets and switches be in bathrooms?

        There must be at least one outlet in each bathroom, adjacent to
        the sink, in addition to any outlet that may be incorporated in
        the light fixture.  All such outlets *must* be GFCI-protected.

Subject: What is Romex/NM/NMD?  What is BX?  When should I use each?

        Romex is a brand name for a type of plastic insulated wire.
        Sometimes called non-metallic sheath.  The formal name is NM.
        This is suitable for use in dry, protected areas (ie: inside
        stud walls, on the sides of joists etc.), that are not subject
        to mechanical damage or excessive heat.  Most newer homes are
        wired almost exclusively with NM wire.  There are several
        different categories of NM cable.

        BX cable -- technically known as armored cable or "AC" has a
        flexible aluminum or steel sheath over the conductors and is
        fairly resistant to damage.

        TECK cable is AC with an additional external thermoplastic
        sheath.
        
        Protection for cable in concealed locations: where NM or AC cable
        is run through studs, joists or similar wooden members, the outer
        surface of the cable must be kept at least 32mm/1.25" (CEC & NEC)
        from the edges of the wooden members, or the cable should be protected
        from mechanical injury.  This latter protection can take the form of
        metal plates (such as spare outlet box ends) or conduit.

        [Note: inspector-permitted practise in Canada suggests that armored
        cable, or flexible conduit can be used as the mechanical protection,
        but this is technically illegal.]

        Additional protection recommendations (these are rules in the
        Canadian codes - they are reasonable answers to the vague
        references to "exposed to mechanical damage" in both the NEC
        and CEC):

            - NM cable should be protected against mechanical damage
              where it passes through floors or on the surface of walls
              in exposed locations under 5 feet from the floor.
              Ie: use AC instead, flexible conduit, wooden guards etc.
            - Where cable is suspended, as in, connections to furnaces
              or water heaters, the wire should be protected.  Canadian
              practise is usually to install a junction or outlet
              box on the wall, and use a short length of AC cable
              or NM cable in flexible conduit to "jump" to the appliance.
              Stapling NM to a piece of lumber is also sometimes used.
            - Where NM cable is run in close proximity to heating
              ducts or pipe, heat transfer should be minimized by
              means of a 25mm/1" air space, or suitable insulation
              material (a wad of fiberglass).
            - NM cable shall be supported within 300mm/1' of every box
              or fitting, and at intervals of no more than 1.5m/5'.
              Holes in joists or studs are considered "supports".
              Some slack in the cable should be provided adjacent to
              each box.  [while fishing cable is technically in violation,
              it is permitted where "proper" support is impractical]
            - 2 conductor NM cable should never be stapled on edge.
              [Knight also insists on only one cable per staple, referring
              to the "workmanship" clause, but this seems more honoured
              in the breach...]
            - cable should never be buried in plaster, cement or
              similar finish.
            - cable should be protected where it runs behind baseboards.
            - Cable may not be run on the upper edge of ceiling joists
              or the lower edges of rafters where the headroom is more
              than 1m (39").

        Whenever BX cable is terminated at a box with a clamp, small
        plastic bushings must be inserted in the end of the cable to
        prevent the clamps forcing the sharp ends of the armor through
        the insulation.

        BX is sometimes a good idea in a work shop unless covered by
        solid wall coverings.

        In places where damage is more likely (like on the back wall of
        a garage ;-), you may be required to use conduit, a
        UL- (or CSA-) approved metal pipe.  You use various types of
        fittings to join the pipe or provide entrance/exit for the
        wire.

        Service entrances frequently use a plastic conduit.

        In damp places (eg: buried wiring to outdoor lighting) you will
        need special wire (eg: CEC NMW90, NEC UF).  NMW90 looks like
        very heavy-duty NMD90.  You will usually need short lengths of
        conduit where the wire enters/exits the ground.  [See underground
        wiring section.]

        Thermoplastic sheath wire (such as NM, NMW etc.) should not be
        exposed to direct sunlight unless explicitly approved for that
        purpose.

        Many electrical codes do not permit the routing of wire through
        furnace ducts, including cold air return plenums constructed
        by metal sheeting enclosing joist spaces.   The reason for this
        is that if there's a fire, the ducting will spread toxic gasses
        from burning insulation very rapidly through the building.
        Teflon insulated wire is permitted in plenums in many areas.
        
        Canada appears to use similar wire designations to the US,
        except that Canadian wire designations usually include the
        temperature rating in Celsius.  Eg: "AC90" versus "AC".
        In the US, NM-B is 90 degrees celcius.

        NOTE: local codes vary.  This is one of the items that changes
        most often.  Eg: Chicago codes require conduit *everywhere*.
        There are very different requirements for mobile homes.
        Check your local codes, *especially* if you're doing anything
        that's the slightest out of the ordinary.

        Wire selection table (incomplete - the real tables are enormous,
        uncommon wire types or applications omitted)

        Condition                       Type    CEC     NEC

        Exposed/Concealed dry           plastic NMD90   NM
                                        armor   AC90    AC
                                                TECK90

        Exposed/Concealed damp          plastic NMD90   NMC
                                        armor   ACWU90
                                                TECK90

        Exposed/Concealed wet           plastic NMWU90
                                        armor   ACWU90
                                                TECK90
        
        Exposed to weather              plastic NMWU
                                                TW etc.
                                        armor   TECK90
        
        Direct earth burial/            plastic NMWU*   UF
        Service entrance                        RWU
                                                TWU
                                        armor   RA90
                                                TECK90
                                                ACWU90
        [* NMWU not for service entrance]

Subject: Should I use plastic or metal boxes?

        The NEC permits use of plastic boxes with non-metallic cable
        only.  The reasoning is simple -- with armored cable, the box
        itself provides ground conductor continuity.  U.S. plastic
        boxes don't use metal cable clamps.

        The CEC is slightly different.  The CEC never permits cable
        armor as a grounding conductor.  However, you must still
        provide ground continuity for metallic sheath.  The CEC also
        requires grounding of any metal cable clamps on plastic boxes.

        The advantage of plastic boxes is comparatively minor even for
        non-metallic sheathed cable -- you can avoid making one ground
        connection and they sometimes cost a little less.  On the other
        hand, plastic boxes are more vulnerable to impacts.  For
        exposed or shop wiring, metal boxes are probably better.

Subject: Junction box positioning?

        A junction box is a box used only for connecting wires together.

        Junction boxes must be located in such a way that they're accessible
        later.  Ie: not buried under plaster.  Excessive use of junction
        boxes is often a sign of sloppy installation, and inspectors may
        get nasty.

Subject: Can I install a replacement light fixture?

        In general, one can replace fixtures freely, subject to a few
        caveats.  First, of course, one should check the amperage
        rating of the circuit.  If your heart is set on installing half
        a dozen 500 watt floodlights, you may need to run a new wire
        back to the panel box.  But there are some more subtle
        constraints as well.  For example, older house
        wiring doesn't have high-temperature insulation.  The excess
        heat generated by a ceiling-mounted lamp can and will cause the
        insulation to deteriorate and crack, with obvious bad results.
        Some newer fixtures are specifically marked for high
        temperature wire only.  (You may find, in fact, that your
        ceiling wiring already has this problem, in which case
        replacing any devices is a real adventure.)

        Other concerns include providing a suitable ground for some
        fluorescent fixtures, and making sure that the ceiling box and
        its mounting are strong enough to support the weight of a heavy
        chandelier or ceiling fan.  You may need to install a new box
        specifically listed for this purpose.  A 2x4 across the ceiling
        joists makes a good support.  Metal brackets are also available
        that can be fished into ceilings thru the junction box hole and
        mounted between the joists.

        There are special rules for recessed light fixtures such as
        "pot" lamps or heat lamps.  When these are installed in insulated
        ceilings, they can present a very substantial fire hazard.
        The CEC provides for the installation of pot lamps in insulated
        ceilings, provided that the fixture is boxed in a "coffin" (usually
        8'x16"x12" - made by making a pair of joists 12" high, and covering
        with plywood) that doesn't have any insulation.  (Yes, that's 8 *feet*
        long)

        NEC rules are somewhat less stringent.  They require at least 3"
        clearance between the fixture and any sort of thermal insulation.
        The rules also say that one should not obstruct free air movement,
        which means that a CEC-style ``coffin'' might be worthwhile.
        Presumably, that's up to the local inspector.  [The CEC doesn't
        actually mandate the coffin per-se, this seems to be an inspector
        requirement to make absolutely certain that the fixture can't get
        accidentally buried in insulation.  Ie: if you have insulation blown
        in later.]

        There are now fixtures that contain integral thermal cutouts and
        fairly large cases that can be buried directly in insulation.  They are
        usually limited to 75 watt bulbs, and are unfortunately, somewhat
        more expensive than the older types.  Before you use them, you should
        ensure that they have explicit UL or CSA approval for such uses.
        Follow the installation instructions carefully; the prescribed location
        for the sensor can vary.

        There does not yet appear to be a heat lamp fixture that is approved
        for use in insulation.  The "coffin" appears the only legal approach.

Subject: What does it mean when the lights brighten when a motor starts?

        This usually means that the neutral wire in the panel is
        loose.  Depending on the load balance, one hot wire may end up
        being more than 110V, and the other less than 110V, with
        respect to ground.  This is a very hazardous situation - it can
        destroy your electronic equipment, possibly start fires, and in
        some situations electrocute you (ie: some US jurisdictions
        require the stove frame connected to neutral).

        If this happens, contact your electrical authority immediately
        and have them come and check out the problem.

        Note: a brief (< 1 second) brightening is sometimes normal with
        lighting and motors on the same 220V with neutral circuit.  A
        loose main panel neutral will usually show increased brightness
        far longer than one second.  In case of doubt, get help.

Subject: What is 3 phase power?  Should I use it?  Can I get it in my house?

        Three phase power has three "hot" wires, 120 degrees out of
        phase with each other.  These are usually used for large motors
        because it is more "efficient", provides a bit more starting torque,
        and because the motors are simpler and hence cheaper.

        You're most likely to encounter a 3 phase circuit that shows
        110 volts between any hot and ground, and 208 volts between
        any two hots.  The latter shows the difference between a normal
        220V/110V common neutral circuit, which is 240 volts between the
        two hots.  There are 3 phase circuits with different voltages.

        Bringing in a 3 phase feed to your house is usually
        ridiculously expensive, or impossible.  If the equipment you
        want to run has a standard motor mount, it is *MUCH* cheaper to
        buy a new 110V or 220V motor for it.  In some cases it is
        possible to run 3 phase equipment on ordinary power if you have
        a "capacitor start" unit, or use a larger motor as a
        (auto-)generator.  These are tricky, but are a good solution if
        the motor is non-standard size, or too expensive or too big to
        replace.  The Taunton Press book ``The Small Shop'' has an
        article on how to do this if you must.

        Note that you lose any possible electrical efficiency by using
        such a converter.  The laws of thermodynamics guarantee that.

Subject: Is it better to run motors at 110 or 220?

        Theoretically, it doesn't make any difference.  However, there
        is a difference is the amount of power lost in the supply
        wiring.  All things being equal, a 220V motor will lose 4 times
        less power in the house wiring than a 110V motor.  This also
        means that the startup surge loss will be less, and the motor
        will get to speed quicker.  And in some circumstances, the
        smaller power loss will lead to longer motor life.

        This is usually irrelevant unless the supply wires are more
        than 50 feet long.

Subject: What is this nonsense about 3HP on 110V 15A circuits?

        It is a universal physical law that 1 HP is equal to 746
        watts.  Given heating loss, power factor and other inefficiencies,
        it is usually best to consider 1 HP is going to need 1000-1200
        watts.  A 110V 15A circuit can only deliver 1850 watts to a motor,
        so it cannot possibly be more than approximately 2 HP.  Given rational
        efficiency factors, 1.5HP is more like it.

        Some equipment manufacturers (Sears in particular, most router
        manufacturers in general ;-) advertise a HP rating that is far
        in excess of what is possible.  They are giving you a "stall
        horsepower" or similar.  That means the power is measured when
        the motor is just about to stop turning because of the load.
        What they don't mention is that if you kept it in that
        condition for more than a few seconds hopefully your breaker
        will trip, otherwise the motor will melt -- it's drawing far
        more current than it can continuously.

        When comparing motors, compare the continuous horsepower.  This
        should be on the motor nameplate.  If you can't find that figure,
        check the amperage rating, which is always present.

Subject: How do I convert two prong receptacles to three prong?

        Older homes frequently have two-prong receptacles instead
        of the more modern three.  These receptacles have no safety
        ground, and the cabling usually has no ground wire.  Neither
        the NEC or CEC permits installing new 2 prong receptacles anymore.

        There are several different approaches to solving this:
            1) If the wiring is done through conduit or BX, and the
               conduit is continuous back to the panel, you can connect
               the third prong of a new receptacle to the receptacle
               box.  NEC mainly - CEC frowns on this practise.
            2) If there is a copper cold water pipe going nearby, and
               it's continuous to the main house ground point, you can
               run a conductor to it from the third prong.
            3) Run a ground conductor back to the main panel.
            4) Easiest: install a GFCI receptacle.  The ground lug
               should not be connected to anything, but the GFCI
               protection itself will serve instead.  The GFCI
               will also protect downstream (possibly also two prong
               outlets).  If you do this to protect downstream outlets,
               the grounds must not be connected together.  Since it
               wouldn't be connected to a real ground, a wiring fault
               could energize the cases of 3 prong devices connected
               to other outlets.  Be sure, though, that there aren't
               indirect ground plug connections, such as via the sheath
               on BX cable.

        The CEC permits you to replace a two prong receptacle with a three
        prong if you fill the U ground with a non-conducting goop.
        Like caulking compound.  This is not permitted in the NEC.

Subject: Are you sure about GFCIs and ungrounded outlets?
        Should the test button work?

        We're sure about what the NEC and CEC say.  Remember, though,
        that your local codes may vary.  As for the TEST button -- there's
        a resistor connecting the LOAD side of the hot wire to the LINE
        side of the neutral wire when you press the TEST button.  Current
        through this resistor shows up as an imbalance, and trips the GFCI.
        This is a simple, passive, and reliable test, and doesn't require
        a real ground to work.  If your GFCI does not trip when you press
        the TEST button, it is very probably defective or miswired.  Again:
        if the test button doesn't work, something's broken, and potentially
        dangerous.  The problem should be corrected immediately.

        The instructions that come with some GFCIs specify that the ground
        wire must be connected.  We do not know why they say this.  The
        causes may be as mundane as an old instruction sheet, or with the
        formalities of UL or CSA listing -- perhaps the device was never
        tested without the ground wire being connected.  On the other hand,
        UL or CSA approval should only have been granted if the device
        behaves properly in *all* listed applications, including ungrounded
        outlet replacement.  (One of us called Leviton; their GFCIs are
        labeled for installation on grounded circuits only.  The technician
        was surprised to see that; he agreed that the NEC does not require
        it, and promised to investigate.)

Subject: How should I wire my shop?

        As with any other kind of wiring, you need enough power for all
        devices that will be on simultaneously.  The code specifies
        that you should stay under 80% of the nominal capacity of the
        circuit.  For typical home shop use, this means one circuit for
        the major power tools, and possibly one for a dust collector or
        shop vac.  Use at least 12 gauge wire -- many power tools have
        big motors, with a big start-up surge.  If you can, use 20 amp
        breakers (NEC), though CEC requires standard 20A receptacles
        which means you'd have to "replug" all your equipment.  Lights
        should either be on a circuit of their own -- and not shared
        with circuits in the rest of the house -- or be on at least two
        separate circuits.  The idea is that you want to avoid a
        situation where a blade is still spinning at several thousand
        RPM, while you're groping in the dark for the OFF switch.

        Do install lots of outlets.  It's easier to install them in the
        beginning, when you don't have to cut into an existing cable.
        It's useful if at least two circuits are accessible at each
        point, so you can run a shop vac or a compressor at the same
        time as the tool you really want.  But use metal boxes and
        plates, and maybe even metal-sheathed cable; you may have
        objects flying around at high speeds if something goes a bit
        wrong.

        Note that some jurisdictions have a "no horizontal wiring"
        rule in workshops or other unfinished areas that are used
        for working.  What this means is that all wiring must be
        run along structural members.  Ie: stapled to studs.

        Other possible shop circuits include heater circuits, 220V
        circuits for some large tools, and air compressor circuits.
        Don't overload circuits, and don't use extension cords if you
        can help it, unless they're rated for high currents.  (A coiled
        extension cord is not as safe as a straight length of wire of
        the same gauge.  Also, the insulation won't withstand as much
        heat, and heat dissipation is the critical issue.)

        If your shop is located at some remove from your main panel,
        you should probably install a subpanel, and derive your shop
        wiring from it.  If you have young children, you may want to
        equip this panel with a cut-off switch, and possibly a lock.
        If you want to install individual switches to ``safe''
        particular circuits, make sure you get ones rated high enough.
        For example, ordinary light switches are not safely able to
        handle the start-up surge generated by a table saw.  Buy
        ``horsepower-rated'' switches instead.

        Finally, note that most home shops are in garages or unfinished
        basements; hence the NEC requirements for GFCIs apply.  And
        even if you ``know'' that you'd never use one of your shop
        outlets to run a lawn mower, the next owner of your house might
        have a different idea.

        Note: Fine Woodworking magazine often carries articles on shop
        wiring.  April 1992 is one place to start.

Subject: Underground Wiring

        You will need to prepare a trench to specifications, use
        special wire, protect the wire with conduit or special plastic
        tubing and possibly lumber (don't use creosoted lumber, it rots
        thermoplastic insulation and acts as a catalyst in the corrosion
        of lead).  The transition from in-house to underground wire is
        generally via conduit.  All outdoor boxes must be specifically
        listed for the purpose, and contain the appropriate gaskets,
        fittings, etc.  If the location of the box is subject to immersion
        in water, a more serious style of water-proof box is needed.  And
        of course, don't forget the GFCIs.

        The required depths and other details vary from jurisdiction to
        jurisdiction, so we suggest you consult your inspector about
        your specific situation.

        A hint: buy a roll of bright yellow tape that says "buried power
        line" and bury it a few inches above where the wire has been placed.

Subject: Aluminum wiring

        During the 1970's, aluminum (instead of copper) wiring became
        quite popular and was extensively used.  Since that time,
        aluminum wiring has been implicated in a number of house fires,
        and most jurisdictions no longer permit it in new installations.
        We recommend, even if you're allowed to, that do not use it for new
        wiring.

        But don't panic if your house has aluminum wiring.  Aluminum
        wiring, when properly installed, can be just as safe as copper.
        Aluminum wiring is, however, very unforgiving of improper
        installation.  We will cover a bit of the theory behind potential
        problems, and what you can do to make your wiring safe.

        The main problem with aluminum wiring is a phenomenon known as
        "cold creep".  When aluminum wiring warms up, it expands.  When
        it cools down, it contracts.  Unlike copper, when aluminum goes
        through a number of warm/cool cycles it loses a bit of tightness each
        time.  To make the problem worse, aluminum oxidises, or corrodes
        when in contact with certain types of metal, so the resistance
        of the connection goes up.  Which causes it to heat up and corrode/
        oxidize still more.  Eventually the wire may start getting very hot,
        melt the insulation or fixture it's attached to, and possibly even
        cause a fire.

        Since people usually encounter aluminum wiring when they move
        into a house built during the 70's, we will cover basic points of
        safe aluminum wiring.  We suggest that, if you're considering purchasing
        a home with aluminum wiring, or have discovered it later, that you
        hire a licensed electrician or inspector to check over the wiring
        for the following things:

            1) Fixtures (eg: outlets and switches) directly attached to
               aluminum wiring should be rated for it.  The device will
               be stamped with "Al/Cu" or "CO/ALR".  The latter supersedes
               the former, but both are safe.   These fixtures are somewhat
               more expensive than the ordinary ones.

            2) Wires should be properly connected (at least 3/4 way around
               the screw in a clockwise direction).  Connections should be
               tight.  While repeated tightening of the screws can make the
               problem worse, during the inspection it would pay off to snug
               up each connection.

               Note that aluminum wiring is still often used for the
               main service entrance cable.  It should be inspected.

            3) "push-in" terminals are an extreme hazard with aluminum wire.
               Any connections using push-in terminals should be redone with
               the proper screw connections immediately.

            4) There should be no signs of overheating: darkened connections,
               melted insulation, or "baked" fixtures.  Any such damage should
               be repaired.
            
            5) Connections between aluminum and copper wire need to be
               handled specially.  Current Canadian codes require that the
               wire nut used must be specially marked for connecting
               aluminum to copper.  The NEC requires that the wire be
               connected together using special crimp devices, with an
               anti-oxidant grease.  The tools and materials for the latter
               are quite expensive - not practical to do it yourself unless
               you can rent the tool.

            6) Any non-rated receptacle can be connected to aluminum wiring
               by means of a short copper "pigtail".  See (5) above.
            
            7) Shows reasonable workmanship: neat wiring, properly stripped
               (not nicked) wire etc.
    
        If, when considering purchasing a home, an inspection of the wiring
        shows no problems or only one or two, we believe that you can consider
        the wiring safe.  If there are signs of problems in many places,
        we suggest you look elsewhere.  If the wrong receptacles are used,
        you can replace them with the proper type, or use pigtails - having
        this professionally done can range from $3 to $10 per receptacle/switch.
        You can do this yourself too.

Subject: I'm buying a house!  What should I do?

        Congratulations.  But...  It's generally a good idea to hire
        an inspector to look through the house for hidden gotchas.
        Not just for wiring, but plumbing and structural as well.  If an
        inspection of the wiring shows no problems or only one or two minor
        ones, we believe that you can consider the wiring safe (after any
        minor problems are fixed).  If there are signs of problems in many
        places, we suggest you look elsewhere.

        Here's some hints on what to look for:

        Obvious non-code wiring can include:

                - Zip cord wiring, either concealed or nailed to walls
                - Hot wiring on the identified (neutral) conductor without
                  proper marking.
                - Ungrounded grounding outlets (except when downstream of
                  a GFCI)
                - Splices hanging in mid-air (other than proper knob-and-tube)
                - Switched neutrals
                - Unsecured Romex swinging about like grapevines

        Certain wiring practises that are actually to code (or were at one
        time) sometimes reveal DIY wiring that may have hidden violations:

                - Switches that seem to control nothing (abandoned, perhaps
                   not properly terminated wiring)
                - A wall switch that shuts off a group of lights that are
                  separately controlled by other wall switches.  (except when
                  it's *really* convenient ;-)
                - Switches and outlets in bizarre locations
                - Great numbers of junction boxes without outlets or lamps
                - Junction boxes with great numbers of wires going into them
                - Wiring that passes through a closet instead of a wall or
                  ceiling
                - Backwrapped grounding wires

Subject: What is this weird stuff?  Old style wiring
        
        In the years since Edison "invented" electricity, several different
        wiring "styles" have come and gone.  When you buy an older home you
        may encounter some of this stuff.  This section describes the old 
        methods, and some of their idiosyncrasies.

        The oldest wiring system you're likely to encounter is called
        "knob and tube" (K&T).  It is made up of individual conductors with
        a cloth insulation.  The wires are run along side structural
        members (eg: joists or studs) using ceramic stand-offs (knobs).
        Wire is run through structural members using ceramic tubes.  Connections
        were made by twisting the wire together, soldering, and wrapping
        with tape.  Since the hot and neutral were run separately,
        the wiring tends to be rather confusing.  A neutral often runs
        down the centre of each room, with "taps" off to each fixture.
        The hot wire tended to run from one fixture to the next.  In some
        cases K&T isn't colour-coded, so the neutral is often the same
        colour as the hot wires.

        You'll see K&T in homes built as late as the 40's.

        Comments on K&T:

                - the people installing K&T were pretty paranoid about
                  electricity, so the workmanship tends to be pretty good.
                - The wire, insulation and insulators tend to stand up
                  very well.  Most K&T I've seen, for example, is in
                  quite good condition.
                - No grounding.  Grounding is usually difficult to install.
                - boxes are small.  Receptacle replacement (particularly with
                  GFCI) can be difficult.  No bushing on boxes either,
                  so wiring changes need special attention to box entry.
                - Sometimes the neutral isn't balanced very well between
                  separately hot circuits, so it is sometimes possible to
                  overload the neutral without exceeding the fusing on
                  any circuit.
                - Building code does not permit insulation in walls
                  that contain K&T.
                - Connection to existing K&T from new circuits can be
                  tricky.  Consult your inspector.
                - Modern wiring practise requires considerably more
                  outlets to be installed than K&T systems did.
        
        Since K&T tends to be in pretty decent condition it generally isn't
        necessary to replace it simply because it's K&T.  What you should
        watch out for is renovations that have interfered with it and
        be cautious about circuit loading.  In many cases it's perfectly
        reasonable to leave existing K&T alone, and add new fixtures on
        new circuits using modern techniques.
        
        After K&T, they invented multi-conductor cable.  The first type
        you will see is roughly a cloth and varnish insulation.  It looks
        much like the romex cable of the last decade or two.  This stuff was
        used in the 40's and 50's.  Again, no grounding conductor.
        It was installed much like modern wiring.  Its major drawback
        is that this type of insulation embrittles.  We've seen whole
        systems where the insulation would fracture and fall off at
        a touch.  BX cable of the same vintage has similar problems.

        This stuff is very fragile, and becomes rather hazardous if
        the wires become bare.  This wiring should be left untouched as
        much as possible - whenever an opportunity arises, replace it.
        A simple receptacle or switch replacement can turn into a several
        hour long frustrating fight with electrical tape or heat-shrink
        tubing.

        After this wiring technique, the more modern romex was invented.
        It's almost a asphalt impregnated cloth.  Often a bit sticky.
        This stuff stands up reasonably well and doesn't present a hazard
        and is reasonably easy to work with.  It does not need to be
        replaced - it should be considered as safe as the "modern" stuff -
        thermoplastic insulation wire.  Just don't abuse it too much.

Subject: Where do I buy stuff?

        Try to find a proper electrical supply outlet near you.  Their
        prices will often be considerably better than chain hardware stores or
        DIY centres, have better quality materials, have wider variety
        including the "odd" stuff, and have people behind the counter that
        know what you're talking about.  Cultivate friendly knowledgeable
        sales people.  They'll give you much valuable information.
-- 
Chris Lewis; clewis@ferret.ocunix.on.ca; Phone: Canada 613 832-0541
Psroff 3.0 info: psroff-request@ferret.ocunix.on.ca
Ferret list: ferret-request@ferret.ocunix.on.ca
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!rochester!udel!gatech!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!noc.near.net!uunet!pipex!uknet!uknet!cam-eng!cmh
From: cmh@eng.cam.ac.uk (C.M. Hicks)
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Subject: Re: How do DI boxes work?
Message-ID: <1993Apr16.090237.10061@eng.cam.ac.uk>
Date: 16 Apr 93 09:02:37 GMT
References: <LANCER.93Apr15150228@oconnor.WPI.EDU>
Sender: cmh@eng.cam.ac.uk (C.M. Hicks)
Organization: cam.eng
Lines: 36
Nntp-Posting-Host: tw100.eng.cam.ac.uk

lancer@oconnor.WPI.EDU (Stephe Lewis Foskett) writes:


>I'm doing sound for a couple of bands around here and we need Direct
>Input boxes for the keyboards.  These are the little boxes that take a
>line level out of the keyboard and transform it into low-Z for the run
>to the mixer.  Sadly they cost like $50 (or more) each and I'm going

This is indeed one function, but more sophisticated ones do level control
and ground-lift (separating the keyboard and mixer earths) aswell.

>to need like 5 or 10 of them!  I looked inside one (belonging to
>another band) and it looks like just a transformer.  Does anyone have

Simple ones are just that - a transformer. A decent quality audio trans-
former will cost most of that $50. They are wired thus...


       HOT   --------------|  |----------------- HOT
                           )||(
     Input from            )||(                Balanced out to mixer
     Keyboard              )||(
                           |  |----------------- COLD
                           |
       GND   --------------|-------------------- GND

The ground-lift switch disconnects the GND line from the mixer. The
transformer ratio depends on the precise application, but around 10:1
turns ratio may be a good place to start.

Christopher
--
 ==============================================================================
  Christopher Hicks    |      Paradise is a Linear Gaussian World
  cmh@uk.ac.cam.eng    |    (also reported to taste hot and sweaty)
 ==============================================================================
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!neoucom.edu!wtm
From: wtm@uhura.neoucom.edu (Bill Mayhew)
Subject: Re: Illusion
Message-ID: <1993Apr16.132053.25555@uhura.neoucom.edu>
Organization: Northeastern Ohio Universities College of Medicine
References: <C5HxG5.vrx@ns1.nodak.edu> <1qk51rINN2n2@hp-col.col.hp.com>
Date: Fri, 16 Apr 1993 13:20:53 GMT
Lines: 31

I missed the first article[s] on this line due to not having a
chance to read the news for a couple of days...

The idea is commercialized in at least one product, the Private
Eye.  That's a small cube-shaped device that the user straps around
the head similar to a sweat band.  There is a boom that comes from
the side on which the device is mounted so that it is positioned
in front of the user's eye.

The Private Eye we had here for evaluation was Hercules-MDA
compatible.  The innards are a row (~400 LEDs) that are swept up
and down by a galvonometer-like movement.  The result is that the
sweeping LED bar forms a fused raster.  There is a virtual image
projected in front of the user that the visual system tends to fuse
with the background.

I didn't like the device very much.  I found it easiest to use if I
looked at a blank white wall.  I had problems with focus tracking
if I glanced down to look at my keyboard for an out-of-the-way key.
The unit also emitted a soft buzz and vibration which I found
annoying.  Some people didn't seem to mind the buzz.  Properly
used, however, the image clarity was quite crisp.

I don't know if the company has taken the technology any further in
the last year or two, but it did seem to have promise.


-- 
Bill Mayhew      NEOUCOM Computer Services Department
Rootstown, OH  44272-9995  USA    phone: 216-325-2511
wtm@uhura.neoucom.edu (140.220.1.1)    146.580: N8WED
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!agate!spool.mu.edu!think.com!enterpoop.mit.edu!senator-bedfellow.mit.edu!larryhsu
From: larryhsu@mtl.mit.edu (Lawrence Hsu)
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Subject: Shrunken monitor window?
Date: 16 Apr 1993 14:14:12 GMT
Organization: MIT Microsystems Technology Laboratories
Lines: 12
Message-ID: <1qmevkINNca5@senator-bedfellow.MIT.EDU>
NNTP-Posting-Host: mtl.mit.edu

Does anyone know what causes the ever-growing black border around the
edges of my computer screen?  The growth has been gradual so I don't
know how long it's taken to get this bad.  I have a 19" DEC (?)
color monitor, maybe five years old, and the black border is about 1.1
inches on the left and right sides, about 1.75 inches on the bottom and
negligible at the top of the screen.  The only controls are
brightness knob, contrast knob, deGauss switch, and power switch.

Is there anything to be done, or are the monitor's days numbered?

Larry Hsu
larryhsu@mtl.mit.edu
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!usc!cs.utexas.edu!tamsun.tamu.edu!enterpoop.mit.edu!senator-bedfellow.mit.edu!ankleand
From: ankleand@mtl.mit.edu (Andrew Karanicolas)
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Subject: Re: IC Packages
Date: 17 Apr 1993 02:59:06 GMT
Organization: MIT Microsystems Technology Laboratories
Lines: 31
Message-ID: <1qnrpqINN1k7@senator-bedfellow.MIT.EDU>
References: <1993Apr16.142715.12613@sol.ctr.columbia.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: ampere.mit.edu

In article <1993Apr16.142715.12613@sol.ctr.columbia.edu> seema@madvlsi.columbia.edu (Seema Varma) writes:
>Getting a custom-made package is too expensive, so
>I am trying to choose between a flatpak and a
>leadless chip carrier. The flatpack would be hard
>to test since it has to be soldered on to the test
>setup and I would spend loads of time soldering 
>as I kept changing the test chip. The leadless chip
>carrier sockets also have long lead lines and may
>not work at high speeds.
> 
>       Does anyone out there have experience/knowledge
>of this field ? I would greatly appreciate help! Any ideas/
>names of companies manufacturing holders/sockets/packages
>would help. 

Check with Kyocera America, Inc.
           24 Prime Park Way, Suite 150
           Natick, MA 01760

They are one of the largest manufacturers of IC packaging in the
world.

It sounds like you would be a good candidate for wafer probing or at
least IC probing to test performance.  HP, Cascade Microtech and
Tektronix should be able to help you here.  One note, testing at high
frequency accurately can be an *expensive* business.

-- 
Andrew Karanicolas
MIT Microsystems Technology Laboratory
ankleand@mtl.mit.edu
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!skybridge!wb8foz
From: wb8foz@skybridge.SCL.CWRU.Edu (David Lesher)
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Subject: Re: Exploding TV!
Date: 17 Apr 1993 03:00:43 GMT
Organization: NRK Clinic for habitual NetNews abusers - Beltway Annex
Lines: 11
Distribution: usa
Message-ID: <1qnrsr$da9@usenet.INS.CWRU.Edu>
References: <1qk4hj$qos@vtserf.cc.vt.edu> <C5LCLJ.1yB@uceng.uc.edu>
Reply-To: wb8foz@skybridge.scl.cwru.edu (David Lesher)
NNTP-Posting-Host: skybridge.scl.cwru.edu

Others said:
# >... Why would the picture tube explode or even smoke?

Naw, it was the penguin on TOP of the set that exploded...
;-}

--
A host is a host from coast to coast..wb8foz@skybridge.scl.cwru.edu
& no one will talk to a host that's close............(301) 56-LINUX
Unless the host (that isn't close).........................pob 1433
is busy, hung or dead....................................20915-1433
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!magnesium.club.cc.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!pacific.mps.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!usc!sdd.hp.com!portal!cup.portal.com!R_Tim_Coslet
From: R_Tim_Coslet@cup.portal.com
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Subject: Re: What do Nuclear Site's Cooling Towers do?
Message-ID: <79694@cup.portal.com>
Date: Fri, 16 Apr 93 21:27:21 PDT
Organization: The Portal System (TM)
Distribution: world
References:  <1qlg9o$d7q@sequoia.ccsd.uts.EDU.AU>
Lines: 41

In article: <1qlg9o$d7q@sequoia.ccsd.uts.EDU.AU>
        swalker@uts.EDU.AU (-s87271077-s.walker-man-50-) wrote:
>I really don't know where to post this question so I figured that
>this board would be most appropriate.
>I was wondering about those massive concrete cylinders that
>are ever present at nuclear poer sites. They look like cylinders
>that have been pinched in the middle. Does anybody know what the
>actual purpose of those things are?. I hear that they're called
>'Cooling Towers' but what the heck do they cool?

Except for their size, the cooling towers on nuclear power plants
are vertually identical in construction and operation to cooling
towers designed and built in the 1890's (a hundred years ago) for
coal fired power plants used for lighting and early electric railways.

Basicly, the cylindrical tower supports a rapid air draft when
its air is heated by hot water and/or steam circulating thru a network
of pipes that fill about the lower 1/3 of the tower. To assist cooling
and the draft, water misters are added that spray cold water over the
hot pipes. The cold water evaporates, removing the heat faster than
just air flow from the draft would and the resulting water vapor is
rapidly carried away by the draft. This produces the clouds frequently
seen rising out of these towers.

That slight pinch (maybe 2/3 of the way up the tower) is there because
it produces a very significant increase in the strength and rate of
the air draft produced, compared to a straight cylinder shape.

The towers are used to recondense the steam in the sealed steam
system of the power plant so that it can be recirculated back to the
boiler and used again. The wider the temperature difference across
the turbines used in the power plant the more effecient they are and
by recondensing the steam in the cooling towers before sending it
back to the boilers you maintain a very wide temperature difference
(sometimes as high as 1000 degrees or more from first stage "hot"
turbine to final stage "cold" turbine).

                                        R. Tim Coslet

Usenet: R_Tim_Coslet@cup.portal.com
        technology, n.  domesticated natural phenomena
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!noc.near.net!uunet!newsflash.concordia.ca!mizar.cc.umanitoba.ca!bison!sys6626!inqmind!victor
From: victor@inqmind.bison.mb.ca (Victor Laking)
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Subject: Re: Info on NEC 3D Multisync monitor
Message-ID: <oe1J2B5w165w@inqmind.bison.mb.ca>
Date: Mon, 05 Apr 93 17:02:23 CDT
References: <7480223@hpfcso.FC.HP.COM>
Organization: The Inquiring Mind BBS  1 204 488-1607
Lines: 43

myers@hpfcso.FC.HP.COM (Bob Myers) writes:

> > I am looking for any info I can get on the NEC 3D monitor.
> > I know that it is a multisync but that is about all.
> > I plan on buying one second-hand in a while depending on its specs.
> > 
> > Does anyone know the min/max frequencies, whether it is interlaced, 
> > non-interlaced, or both, video compatability, etc?
> > I have seen a reference to it being .28 pitch with 1024 X 720 resolution 
> > and that it supports SVGA from one source and that it doesn't support 
> > SVGA from another source.  (Neither source seemed to have much reliable 
> > info so I don't want to take a guess.)
> 
> I'm at home right now, and so am away from my monitor files; the following
> is off the top of my head, subject to revision, worth-what-ya-pay-for-it
> sort of info.  If you don't hear from anyone who has spec sheet in hand,
> e-mail me and I'll look it up.
> 
> If I'm remembering correctly, the 3D is a 14" 0.28 mm pitch multisync that
> covers at least VGA (31.5 kHz horizontal, 60 Hz vertical) to 1024 x 768 
> 60 Hz (which is going to be about 48 kHz horizontal).  It may go somewhat
> higher than that on the horizontal, but you won't be happy with anything
> beyond 1024 x 768 on a 14" 0.28 tube; you probably won't be too thrilled
> with the 1024 x 768 on this tube, but it *will* sync up and display it.
> (I prefer at least a 16" 0.28 for this resolution.)  Since SVGA is 800x600,
> it'll do that too.  The horizontal range probably goes lower than 31.5, but
> I don't know if it goes all the way down to straight NTSC-rate TV (which need
> about 15.75 kHz sweep).  As far as "video compatibility" (if I'm reading
> the question right: it won't take anything but analog RGB inputs.  In other
> words, it has no way to decode NTSC or Y/C video inputs.  You would need
> some sort of board to to this conversion - like the sorts of things that 
> let you display NTSC on a VGA display.
> 
> Hopefully, now, I'll see this response of mine, and it'll remind me to
> look this stuff up and confirm it.  (Or force me to post a hasty retraction!)

Ok, I was under the impression that it accepted digital input.

I still don't know for sure if it accepts BOTH interlaced and 
non-interlaced as I have gotten conflicting info.

victor@inqmind.bison.mb.ca
The Inquiring Mind BBS, Winnipeg, Manitoba  204 488-1607
Xref: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu sci.electronics:53655 comp.sys.intel:6401
Newsgroups: sci.electronics,comp.sys.intel
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!noc.near.net!uunet!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!zeus.ieee.org!lll-winken.llnl.gov!quintro!bpdsun1!rmf
From: rmf@bpdsun1.uucp (Rob Finley)
Subject: Re: RAMs &ROMs with ALE latches (for 8051's)
Message-ID: <1993Apr17.032556.3382@bpdsun1.uucp>
Organization: Harris Allied Broadcast Div., Quincy, IL
References: <1qg98sINNokf@sheoak.ucnv.edu.au> <1qgk3a$2sf@agate.berkeley.edu> <IISAKKIL.93Apr14130905@vipunen.hut.fi>
Date: Sat, 17 Apr 93 03:25:56 GMT
Lines: 22


Intel also makes some neat memory and peripheral chips:

Old technology (early 1980's)  
8155  ram plus IO (slow ram as I recall)
8755  eprom plus IO (expensive and slow)


Intel does make Eproms with built in address latches.
I fear that you would need a very flexible and up-to-date eprom
programmer to write to them.

give them a call.  I am not able to locate their memory products book
yet.



Sigh...  Now, who borrowed it...

Robert


Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!asuvax!ncar!uchinews!raistlin!uc.msc.edu!apctrc!wwnv28!zklf0b
From: zklf0b@wwnv28.hou.amoco.com (Fergason)
Subject: Re: what to do with old 256k SIMMs?
Message-ID: <C5L5H5.Lwy@trc.amoco.com>
Sender: usenet@trc.amoco.com
Organization: Amoco Production
References: <120466@netnews.upenn.edu> <1ql7ug$i50@sunb.ocs.mq.edu.au>
Date: Fri, 16 Apr 1993 16:51:04 GMT
Lines: 21

In article <1ql7ug$i50@sunb.ocs.mq.edu.au> johnh@macadam.mpce.mq.edu.au (John Haddy) writes:
>In article <120466@netnews.upenn.edu>, jhaines@eniac.seas.upenn.edu (Jason Haines) writes:
>|> 
>|>     I was wondering if people had any good uses for old
>|> 256k SIMMs.  I have a bunch of them for the Apple Mac
>|> and I know lots of other people do to.  I have tried to
>|> sell them but have gotten NO interest.
>|> 
>|>     So, if you have an inovative use (or want to buy
>|> some SIMMs  8-) ), I would be very interested in hearing
>|> about it.
>
>The most practical use I've seen for them is as key ring ornaments :-)
>
>JohnH

I used a bunch as weights, when building a model airplane.  Hung them
on the stringers, across the stringer, or whatever.  Worked pretty well.

Kelly

Xref: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu misc.forsale:75764 sci.electronics:53669
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!rochester!udel!gatech!swrinde!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!ames!olivea!apple.com!apple.com!not-for-mail
From: rbn@apple.com (Robert B. Neville)
Newsgroups: ba.market.misc,misc.forsale,sci.electronics
Subject: Oscilliscopes for sale
Message-ID: <1qp67k$e4d@apple.com>
Date: 17 Apr 93 15:03:16 GMT
Organization: Apple Computer, Inc., Cupertino, California
Lines: 37
NNTP-Posting-Host: apple.com

Recently I posted two oscilliscopes for sale. One has sold, the other is
still available:
 Used, good condition:
 Hitachi V-422 40MHz Dual-Channel Portable Analog Oscilliscope
   o 1mV/div
   o DC offset
   o alternate magnification (10x magnified & non-magnified
     waveform)
   o VERT mode trigger
   o TV sync separation circuit
 List price      $910.00 (...and the price Fry's electronics just
                         quoted!) :-(
 Sells for       $699.99 (JDR MicroDevices current price)
                 $745.95 (Products International)
 Your price used $425.00 obo
...I haven't gotten an offer at the asking price, so 'obo' applies...

I also have a 'broken' version of the scope which sold:
 JDR 2000 20MHz Dual-Channel Portable Analog Oscilliscope
   o 5mV/div
   o Component Tester (resistors/caps/diodes/coils)
   o TV video sync filter
   o z-axis input (intensity modulation)

'Broken' means: The CRT produces a nice, bright trace, but the trace does
not correspond to the input signal. My guess is it's repairable but more
than a simple calibration problem...but I honestly have not tried to
calibrate the scope or otherwise fix it. It's 'as-is'.
I paid $60 for it in its current state (I bought it thinking I'd repair it,
using the 'good' scope for side-by-side comparison...since I've sold the
'good' scope, the 'bad' one doesn't do me much good) and I'd like to recoup
that amount. As above, I'll accept offers and take the best one.

I'd prefer a local (Bay Area, California) buyer, so (a) I don't have to
ship it and (b) she or he can examine the scope prior to purchase.

rbn@apple.com
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!gatech!darwin.sura.net!bogus.sura.net!news-feed-1.peachnet.edu!umn.edu!lynx.unm.edu!dns1.NMSU.Edu!dns1.NMSU.Edu!usenet
From: mcole@spock (COLE)
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Subject: 8051 Microcontroller
Date: 17 Apr 1993 20:37:57 GMT
Organization: New Mexico State University
Lines: 3
Message-ID: <1qppr5INNaqa@dns1.NMSU.Edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: spock.nmsu.edu

I would like to experiment with the INTEL 8051 family.  Does anyone out  
there know of any good FTP sites that might have compiliers, assemblers,  
etc.?
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!noc.near.net!uunet!pipex!uknet!uknet!gdt!aber!cjp1
From: cjp1@aber.ac.uk (Christopher John Powell)
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Subject: Fujitsu 8" HDD
Keywords: M2321K, M2322K, Fujitsu, Microdisk (-:
Message-ID: <1993Apr17.204351.2256@aber.ac.uk>
Date: 17 Apr 93 20:43:51 GMT
Organization: University of Wales, Aberystwyth
Lines: 23

I have a Fujitsu M2322K which has been removed (I believe) from a digital
X-Ray machine (takes X-Ray pictures without film).  The Fujitsu part number
is B03B-4745-B002A.

I have obtained some data on the device, it is 8-inch winchester-type
of 168 megabyte capacity (though I was told it was over 800 megabytes).
However, there is very little information on the interface standard used.
It appears to use two balanced-line connections, but what each connection
corresponds to I know not. One connection is a 30-way IDC, the other a
60-way IDC.

If anyone has any information on this device, I would be most grateful
if you could provide it.

Thanks.


Chris Powell.
-- 
+------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|  THE MAN FROM :  #####  #######  | JANET    : cjp1@uk.ac.aber          |
|                 #     #     _#   | Internet : cjp1@aber.ac.uk          |
|                 #     #  _#      | NYX      : cpowell@nyx.cs.du.edu    |
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!noc.near.net!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!sdd.hp.com!nigel.msen.com!fmsrl7!destroyer!cs.ubc.ca!alberta!kakwa.ucs.ualberta.ca!ee.ualberta.ca!ulan
From: ulan@ee.ualberta.ca (Dale Ulan)
Subject: Re: what to do with old 256k SIMMs?
Message-ID: <ulan.735093864@ee.ualberta.ca>
Sender: news@kakwa.ucs.ualberta.ca
Nntp-Posting-Host: eigen.ee.ualberta.ca
Organization: University Of Alberta, Edmonton Canada
References: <120466@netnews.upenn.edu> <1993Apr15.100452.16793@csx.cciw.ca> <1qpgsiINN31p@diplodocus.cis.ohio-state.edu>
Date: Sun, 18 Apr 1993 00:44:24 GMT
Lines: 28

rubin@cis.ohio-state.edu (Daniel J Rubin) writes:

>How hard would it be to somehow interface them to some of the popular 
>Motorola microcontrollers.  I am a novice at microcontrollers, but I am
>starting to get into them for some of my projects.  I have several 256k
>SIMMs laying around from upgraded Macs and if I could use them as "free"
>memory in one or two of my projects that would be great.  One project that
>comes to mind is a Caller ID device that would require quite a bit of RAM
>to store several hundered CID records etc...

Assuming 68HC11...
In expanded muxed mode, you *could* do it. Much easier if you get a DRAM
controller IC. The MMI 673102 could be used to implement this, or you
could use a counter and a huge multiplexer to provide row/column/refresh
address multiplexing. The thing with DRAMs is that they require wierd
timing, address multiplexing, and refresh.

Actually, if you wanted to use a 68008 IC, you could look at AN897, which
has a neat controller built in. There is also the 683xx, I think one
of those has the DRAM controller built in. This one is for the 6664
DRAM, however, the 41256 has only one more address line, adding only
another component or so. The 256k SIMMs are basically 8 or 9 41256
DRAM chips (or their equivalent in fewer packages).

It *can* be done, just takes a bit of logic design. I'm actually
about to do it using a 65C02P3 chip... I've got 8 256k simms... that's
2 megabytes on my Apple //e... (used to be in my '386).

Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!noc.near.net!howland.reston.ans.net!agate!dog.ee.lbl.gov!network.ucsd.edu!ucsnews!eng!mlee
From: mlee@eng.sdsu.edu (Mike Lee)
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Subject: Wire-Amperage table needed
Date: 18 Apr 1993 07:11:50 GMT
Organization: San Diego State University Computing Services
Lines: 5
Message-ID: <1qquvm$ndt@gondor.sdsu.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: eng.sdsu.edu
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL9]


Does anyone has a table about the size of the wire to the amount of current it can carry.  Probably in the 1-15amp range.  My friend is interested in converting a Mazda into an electric car.  Needed information for estimation.  Thanks in advance.  

p.s. any info on electric will be greatly appreaciated.  

Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!noc.near.net!howland.reston.ans.net!gatech!pitt.edu!dsinc!ub!toz!cyberman
From: cyberman@toz.buffalo.ny.us (Cyberman)
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Subject: Re: what to do with old 2
Message-ID: <gate.iaa92B1w165w@toz.buffalo.ny.us>
Date: 19 Apr 93 00:38:17 GMT
Lines: 33
X-Maildoor: WaflineMail 1.00r

{Jason Haines} said
   "what to do with old 256k"
      to <All> on 04-15-93  04:38

 JH> I was wondering if people had any good uses for old
 JH> 256k SIMMs.  I have a bunch of them for the Apple Mac
 JH> and I know lots of other people do to.  I have tried to
 JH> sell them but have gotten NO interest.

    How about collecting them all together (IE everyones) and
    selling them as a lot?  The other thing is to give to a
    recycler.

 JH> So, if you have an inovative use (or want to buy
 JH> some SIMMs  8-) ), I would be very interested in hearing
 JH> about it.

    If they are free and you can send them real cheap!  I would
    be intrested in them.  hehehe  Are these 2 chip or 8 chip
    devices what speed?

 JH> I have seen RAM disc storage devices but they have been
 JH> very pricey (plus I am still a little worried about having data
 JH> stored on RAM).

    Why?  Do you use a RAM disk? :)

                Stephen Cyberman@Toz.Buffalo.NY.US
             Mangled on Fri  04-16-1993  at 19:58:29

... Badgers... we don't need no steenking Badgers!
___ Blue Wave/QWK v2.12
                                                        
Xref: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu rec.radio.amateur.misc:37489 sci.electronics:53708
Newsgroups: rec.radio.amateur.misc,rec.aviation,sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!noc.near.net!howland.reston.ans.net!wupost!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!cactus.org!thompson
From: thompson@cactus.org (Charles Thompson)
Subject: How does "Differential Mode" GPS work???
Message-ID: <1993Apr19.001449.17255@cactus.org>
Followup-To: poster
Organization: Capital Area Central Texas UNIX Society, Austin, Tx
Date: Mon, 19 Apr 1993 00:14:49 GMT
Lines: 15



I understand that the new GPS boxes now have an option
known as "differential ready".  Apparently land-based
beacons tranmit GPS correction information to your GPS 
receiver (with differential option installed).

How does this system work?  What frequency is used for
the land-based beacons?

Thanks in advance,

Charlie Thompson
.

Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!noc.near.net!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!sdd.hp.com!saimiri.primate.wisc.edu!usenet.coe.montana.edu!news.uoregon.edu!netnews.nwnet.net!news.u.washington.edu!spiff.seattleu.edu!thebes!ole!ssc!markz
From: markz@ssc.com (Mark Zenier)
Subject: Re: Illusion
Organization: SSC, Inc.,  Seattle, WA
Date: Sun, 18 Apr 1993 19:35:08 GMT
Message-ID: <1993Apr18.193508.3868@ssc.com>
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL6]
References: <1qk51rINN2n2@hp-col.col.hp.com>
Lines: 22

Chris Best (cab@col.hp.com) wrote:
: > This is not a new idea.  At least 10 years ago I got this little gadget with
: > a keyboard on the back and 8 LED's in a vertical row on the front.  It has a
: > long handle and when you wave it in the air it "writes" the message you typed
: > on the keyboard in the air. 
: 
: This is not news.  In fact it's where I got the idea from, since it was
: such a neat item.  Mattell made it, I believe, modeled after a "space 
: saber" or "light sword" or something likewise theme-y.  My addition was 
: using a motor for continuous display, and polar effects in addition to 
: character graphics.  I should have protected it when I had the chance.  
: No one to kick but myself...
: 
: Ten years ago is about right, since I built mine in '84 or '85.

It's even older than that.  I remember seeing a description of
a garage operation selling them at some of the early Computer Faires 
in San Francisco about 5 years before that.


Mark Zenier  markz@ssc.wa.com  markz@ssc.com  

Xref: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu rec.audio:63238 sci.electronics:52792
Newsgroups: rec.audio,sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!gatech!howland.reston.ans.net!bogus.sura.net!darwin.sura.net!jabba.ess.harris.com!mlb.semi.harris.com!gmc
From: gmc@cthulhu.semi.harris.com 
Subject: Re: What is Zero dB????
Date: Tue, 6 Apr 1993 17:25:32 GMT
Nntp-Posting-Host: cthulhu.mlb.semi.harris.com
Organization: Analog
Sender: gmc@cthulhu (Jerry Cotreau)
Message-ID: <1993Apr6.172532.23584@mlb.semi.harris.com>
Lines: 57

In article <1993Apr6.132429.16154@bnr.ca>
      moffatt@bnr.ca (John Thomson) writes:

 >Joseph Chiu (josephc@cco.caltech.edu) wrote:
 >
 >: Thus, a deciBell (deci-, l., tenth of + Bell) is a fractional part of the
 >: original Bell.  For example, SouthWestern Bell is a deciBell.
 >
 >Out of what hat did you pull this one?  dB is a ratio not an RBOC!
 >
 >: And the measure of current, Amp, is actually named after both the AMP company
 >: and the Amphenol company.  Both companies revolutionized electronics by
 >: simulatenously realizing that the performance of connectors and sockets
 >: were affected by the amount of current running through the wires.
 >
 >Sorry.  The unit for current is the AMPERE which is the name of a french-man
 >named AMPERE who studied electrical current.  The term AMP is just an abbreviation
 >of it.  The company AMP came after the AMPERE unit was already in use.
 >
 >: The Ohmite company was the first to characterize resistances by numbers,
 >: thus our use of the Ohms...
 >
 >I don't know about this one, but it doesn't sound right.
 >
 >:
 >: Alexander Graham Bell, actually, is where Bell came from...
 >Well you got one thing right!
 >:

Actually, I think J. Chiu knows the score and is just being
silly. However, "decibel" is in fact 1/10th of a bel. He is
right on that one, but I don't know if it was accidental or not.

Strictly defined, a bel is the ratio of the log of two power levels,
and a decibel is 1/10th of a bel so you have 10X decibels for every bel,
hence bel=log(P2/P1) and decibel=10Xlog(P2/P1).

The bel, ohm, volt, farad, ampere, watt, hertz, henry, etc. are
all named for pioneers in the field. It's a traditional and fine
way to honor researchers who discover new knowledge in a new field.
Hertz was one of the most important of the early electronics explorers,
but had been left out in having a term or unit named after him
until recently, (1960's, prior to that what is now a hertz was a cps.)
All the other units were defined many decades earlier.


 


-- 
----------------------------------------------------------------------




----------------------------------------------------------------------

Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!noc.near.net!uunet!netnews!bakerjp1
From: bakerjp1@netnews.jhuapl.edu (Baker John P. PDD x4895 )
Subject: How does "Differential Mode" GPS work???
Message-ID: <C5qp1G.9tn@netnews.jhuapl.edu>
Summary: Explaination of DGPS system
Keywords: GPS, differential, navigation, radio
Organization: JHU/Applied Physics Laboratory
Date: Mon, 19 Apr 1993 16:41:40 GMT
Lines: 46


>I understand that the new GPS boxes now have an option
>known as "differential ready".  Apparently land-based
>beacons tranmit GPS correction information to your GPS 
>receiver (with differential option installed).

>How does this system work?  What frequency is used for
>the land-based beacons?

>Thanks in advance,

>Charlie Thompson
>.

Here's a rough sketch of how the system works.  A reference station
with a very exactly known position computes the errors in the
incoming GPS signals.  These errors are due to several factors
including atmospheric distortion, SA (Selective Availability) time
dithering, etc.  The reference unit contains complex computational 
equipment to "back out" the errors in its position (since it knows
where it is already).  It then transmits these corrections on a 
broadcast which is available to any number of relatively local
receivers.  If the receivers are nearby (<300km) and are using
the same satellites as the reference unit, the errors should be very
similar for the reference unit and the receiver unit.  Thus, the
receiver unit may apply the corrections calculated by the reference
unit.

The US Coast Guard is currently (as far as I know) installing a series
of coastline transmitters for differential GPS.  These stations will
use existing radio towers.  I believe the frequency is to be approximately
305 kHz.  There are many other private corporations offering DGPS signals
on different frequencies.  For example, PinPoint ((310)-618-7076) offers
correction signals and receiver units using an FM broadcast system
which has stations all across the US.

The correction codes are usually transmitted using the RTCM 104 format.
Advertised accuracies espouse 1 to 5 meter errors.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------
John P. Baker                   | My opinions are my own.  I don't know
Johns Hopkins University        | anyone else who wants them, anyway.
Applied Physics Laboratory      |
Laurel, MD  20723               | bakerjp1@aplcomm.jhuapl.edu
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!gatech!taco!mjhill
From: mjhill@eos.ncsu.edu (MICHAEL JAMES HILL)
Subject: New applications of electronics
Message-ID: <1993Apr19.154129.20504@ncsu.edu>
Originator: mjhill@c00483-224wi.eos.ncsu.edu
Sender: news@ncsu.edu (USENET News System)
Reply-To: mjhill@eos.ncsu.edu (MICHAEL JAMES HILL)
Organization: North Carolina State University, Project Eos
Date: Mon, 19 Apr 1993 15:41:29 GMT
Lines: 8



        I'm looking for brief information on new
applications of electronics (or new electronics in
applications.) If you know of any interesting new
stuff, I would be intrested in hearing about it.

                        Thanks, MJH
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!gatech!ukma!billq
From: billq@ms.uky.edu (Billy Quinn)
Subject: Suggestions  on Audio relays ???
Message-ID: <C5qsBF.IEK@ms.uky.edu>
Organization: University Of Kentucky, Dept. of Math Sciences
Date: Mon, 19 Apr 1993 17:52:25 GMT
Lines: 22

I built a little project using the radio shack 5vdc relays to switch
audio.  I got pretty bad 'clicks' when the thing switched.  I was doing
most of the common things one is supposed to do when using relays and
nothing seemed to get rid of the clicks.


My question is:

        Is there a good relay/relay circuit that I can use for switching
audio, so that there will be *NO* noise of any kind on the audio lines.


I will appreciate any advice or references to advice.  Also, exact part
numbers/company names etc. for the relays will help!

Thanks!


-- 
*-----------------------------------------------------------------------*
*       Bill Quinn                      billq@ms.uky.edu                *
*-----------------------------------------------------------------------*
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!magnesium.club.cc.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!darwin.sura.net!udel!news.intercon.com!psinntp!megatest!mithril!alung
From: alung@megatest.com (Aaron Lung)
Subject: Re: Need to find out number to a phone line
Message-ID: <C5qvMB.38B@megatest.com>
Organization: Megatest Corporation
References: <20756.2bd16dea@ecs.umass.edu>
Date: Mon, 19 Apr 1993 19:08:57 GMT
Lines: 24

In article <20756.2bd16dea@ecs.umass.edu> alee@ecs.umass.edu writes:
>
>Greetings!
>      
>        Situation:  I have a phone jack mounted on a wall.  I don't
>                    know the number of the line.  And I don't want
>                    to call up the operator to place a trace on it.
>
>        Question:   Is there a certain device out there that I can
>                    use to find out the number to the line?
>        Thanks for any response.
>                                                    Al

There is a number you can call which will return a synthesized
voice telling you the number of the line.  Unfortunately, for the
life of me I can't remember what it is. The telephone technicians
use it all the time.  We used to play around with this in our
dorm rooms since there were multiple phone lines running between
rooms.

sorry!

aaron

Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!magnesium.club.cc.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!spool.mu.edu!news.nd.edu!scarecrow.cse.nd.edu!jott
From: jott@scarecrow.cse.nd.edu (John Ott)
Subject: Re: Pinout needed for TIL311
Message-ID: <1993Apr19.173619.27329@news.nd.edu>
Sender: news@news.nd.edu (USENET News System)
Reply-To: jott@scarecrow.cse.nd.edu (John Ott)
Organization: Univ. of Notre Dame
References:  <segal.734995860@corolla7>
Date: Mon, 19 Apr 1993 17:36:19 GMT
Lines: 64

In article <segal.734995860@corolla7>, segal@rtsg.mot.com (Gary Segal) writes:
|> I've recently picked up some TIL311 display chips, but I can't find
|> any information on them.  It seems they are no longer made by TI, and
|> I don't have an old enough data book.  :-(
|> 
|> It appears to have a dot-matrix led display capable of showing one hex
|> digit.  It is in a 14 pin DIP package, but pins 6, 9, and 11 are not
|> present.
|> 
|> If you have any information on this part (pinout, power requirments,
|> functions, ...) please send me e-mail.
|> 
|> Thank You,
|> 
|> -- 
|> Gary Segal                             Motorola Inc.            
|> segal@oscar.rtsg.mot.com               Cellular Infrastructure Division
|>      --- we are standing here only to gaze at the wind ---


pin      function
 1      led supply voltage
 2      latch data input b
 3      latch data input a
 4      left decimal point cathode
 5      latch strobe input
 6      omitted
 7      common gnd
 8      blanking input
 9      omitted
10      right decimal point cathode
11      omitted
12      latch data input d
13      latch data input c
14      logic supply voltage (5v)

LATCH STROBE INPUT, pin 5, when low, the data in the latches follow the data on the latch data
                             inputs.  When high, the data in the latches will not change.  If the
                               display is blanked and then restored while the enable input is high,
                               the previous character will again be displayed.

BLANKING INPUT, pin 8,    When high, the display is blanked regardless of the levels of the other
                              inputs.  When low, a character is displayed as determined by the data
                              in the latches.  The blanking input may be pulsed for intensity modulation.

LATCH DATA INPUTS, pins 2,3,12,13,   Data on these inputs are entered into the latches when the enable
                                          input is low.  The binary weights of these inputs are A = 1,
                                          B = 2, C = 4, D = 8

DECIMAL POINT CATHODES, pins 4, 10,   These LEDS are not connected to the logic chip.  If a decimal point
                                          is used, an external resistor or other current limiting
                                          mechanism must be connected in series with it.

LED SUPPLY, pin 1            This connection permits the user to save on regulated Vcc current by using
                                 a separate LED supply, or it may be externally connected to the logic
                                 supply (Vcc).

LOGIC SUPPLY (Vcc), pin 14      Separate Vcc connection for the logic chip

COMMON GROUND, pin 7,      This is the vegative termnal for all logic and LED currents except for the
                              decimal points.

John
jott@dickens.helios.nd.edu
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!rochester!udel!bogus.sura.net!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!decwrl!waikato.ac.nz!aukuni.ac.nz!grimwood
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Subject: Pattern Generator wanted
Message-ID: <1993Apr19.220058.26075@ccu1.aukuni.ac.nz>
From: grimwood@ccu1.aukuni.ac.nz (Tony Grimwood)
Date: Mon, 19 Apr 1993 22:00:58 GMT
Organization: University of Auckland, New Zealand.
Keywords: pattern
Summary: MDA/EGA/VGA pat. gen.
Lines: 15

I repair a lot of monitors here, and I'd like to know where I can get a
pattern generator (or a circuit for one) that will provide MDA, EGA and VGA
signals. Using a whole PC to do this takes up too much space on my bench, and
is somewhat less than portable. I guess I could sit down and design something,
but I don't have the time right now - any (reasonable) suggestions would be
appreciated.

TNX

TG
-- 
Tony Grimwood, ZL1TTG                   "Make no friendship with an elephant
Biomedical Engineering Services          keeper, unless you have room to
University of Auckland                   entertain an elephant."
Auckland, New Zealand                            == Saadi of Shiraz ==
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!noc.near.net!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!cs.utexas.edu!utnut!torn!nott!bnrgate!bnr.co.uk!demon!cheltenham-he.ac.uk!NWZ96H
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
From: NWZ96H@cheltenham-he.ac.uk (NWZ96H)
Subject: Hatley & Pirbhai help...
Date: Tue, 20 Apr 1993 11:17:42 +0000
Message-ID: <9304201212.ag22552@demon.demon.co.uk>
Sender: usenet@demon.co.uk
Lines: 12

Hello,

Has anyone used the Requirements Analsys methodology Hatley & Pirbhai ? I am
a British final year real-time degree student, and as a project I am covering
this methodology. I would be very grateful to anyone who could give me their
views on this method. Please mail me if you feel you can help, and I will send
you my questions.

Thanks in advance,

David Phelps    (nwz96h@chelt.ac.uk)

Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!rochester!udel!gatech!hubcap!ncrcae!churchill.ColumbiaSC.NCR.COM!keith
From: keith@churchill.ColumbiaSC.NCR.COM (Keith.Boyd)
Subject: Re: Need to find out number to a phone line
Message-ID: <1993Apr20.132444.24737@ncrcae.ColumbiaSC.NCR.COM>
Nntp-Posting-Host: churchill.columbiasc.ncr.com
Organization: NCR Corp., Columbia SC
References: <20756.2bd16dea@ecs.umass.edu>
Date: Tue, 20 Apr 93 13:24:44 GMT
Lines: 30

In article <20756.2bd16dea@ecs.umass.edu> alee@ecs.umass.edu writes:
>
>Greetings!
>      
>        Situation:  I have a phone jack mounted on a wall.  I don't
>                    know the number of the line.  And I don't want
>                    to call up the operator to place a trace on it.
>
>        Question:   Is there a certain device out there that I can
>                    use to find out the number to the line?
>        Thanks for any response.
>                                                    Al
>
>  

Do you get a dial tone when you plug a phone into the jack??  If not,
then the line is possibly disconnected from the nearest telco junction
box. If you do get a dial tone, then surely the telco is sending a bill
for the line to *someplace* or *somebody*. Are you sure that what you
are doing is on the level. Sounds to me like you are just trying to get 
at somebody's unlisted number.  Fess up.

Keith


-- 
| Keith Boyd  (NCR- MCPD Cola.) |  Nothing could be finer than huntin' and   |
| 3325 Platt Springs Rd.        |    and fishin' in South Carolina! -Me-     | 
| West Cola., S.C. 29170 |   Go Gamecocks!   | keith.boyd@columbiasc.NCR.COM |
| Vp: 803-791-6419 or 6455    | From uunet: uunet!ncrcom!ncrcae!clodii!keith | 
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!magnesium.club.cc.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!pacific.mps.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!bogus.sura.net!udel!news.intercon.com!psinntp!ptsys1!kng
From: kng@pt.com (Ken Gravenstede)
Subject: Decent, CHEAP 20+MHZ Scopes?
Message-ID: <1993Apr20.125747.3916@pt.com>
Organization: Performance Technologies, Incorporated
Date: Tue, 20 Apr 1993 12:57:47 GMT
Lines: 12

Any info on modern 20MHZ or better dual trace scopes would be appreciated.
Should I buy a used one or a new one?  And where?

Please E-Mail.

Thanks in advance.

Ken
-- 
__
Ken Gravenstede, Performance Technologies Incorporated  kng@pt.com
315 Science Parkway, Rochester, New York 14620            uupsi!ptsys1!kng
Xref: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu rec.audio.car:9975 rec.audio:63862 sci.electronics:53818
Newsgroups: rec.audio.car,rec.audio,sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!utcsri!utnut!torn!nott!bnrgate!bcars267!bcarhdd!moffatt
From: moffatt@bnr.ca (John Thomson)
Subject: Re: What is Zero dB????
Message-ID: <1993Apr20.140723.8695@bnr.ca>
Sender: news@bnr.ca (usenet)
Nntp-Posting-Host: bcarhdd
Organization: Bell-Northern Research, Ottawa, Canada
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL6]
References: <1993Apr19.102228.158@rediris.es>
Date: Tue, 20 Apr 1993 14:07:23 GMT
Lines: 33

marrevola@rediris.es wrote:
: In article <1993Apr6.132429.16154@bnr.ca>, moffatt@bnr.ca (John Thomson) writes:
: > Joseph Chiu (josephc@cco.caltech.edu) wrote:
: > 
: > : And the measure of current, Amp, is actually named after both the AMP company
: > : and the Amphenol company.  Both companies revolutionized electronics by
: > : simulatenously realizing that the performance of connectors and sockets 
: > : were affected by the amount of current running through the wires.
: > 
: > Sorry.  The unit for current is the AMPERE which is the name of a french-man
: > named AMPERE who studied electrical current.  The term AMP is just an abbreviation
: > of it.  The company AMP came after the AMPERE unit was already in use.
: >   
: > : The Ohmite company was the first to characterize resistances by numbers, thus
: > : our use of the Ohms...
: > 
: > I don't know about this one, but it doesn't sound right.
: Are you (two) joking?
: Is the entire Internet flaming you (two)?
: Ahh!, now I remember that Ohmite company was the first introducing "the pink
: colored resistor", only for electronics working females ;-)
: -- 
: Manuel Arrevola Velasco   ||||| True e-mail: manolo@taf.fundesco.es |||||
: DoD #1033
: 
Yes, I have taken a bit of flame on this one.  I must've been half asleep when
I posted a response to Joseph.

Greggo.
-----
Greg Moffatt  moffatt@bnr.ca
Bell-Northern Research Inc., Ottawa Canada
"My opinions; not BNR's"
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!gatech!howland.reston.ans.net!bogus.sura.net!darwin.sura.net!uvaarpa!vdoe386!ragee
From: ragee@vdoe386.vak12ed.edu (Randy Agee)
Subject: Radar detector DETECTORS?
Message-ID: <1993Apr06.173031.9793@vdoe386.vak12ed.edu>
Organization: Virginia's Public Education Network (Richmond)
Date: Tue, 06 Apr 93 17:30:31 GMT
Lines: 50

Here's one I hope some knowledgeable readers will make a comment or
contribution to:

In the State of Virginia radar detectors are illegal, period.  If
you are caught with one it will be confiscated on the spot and will
not be returned until after you appear in court and pay your fine. 
The fine for having a radar detector accessible in a motor vehicle
(even if it is not on) is $250.00.  Sorry, tourist, ignorance of
the law is no excuse - they will get you too!

It used to be that the only way the law could be enforced was for
an officer to actually see the radar detector.  Not any more!  Many
law enforcement agencies are now using radar detector detectors. 
Right, a super sensitive receiver that is capable of picking up RF
from the radar detector itself.  My first reaction was "no way!" 
But, guess again, these little buggers really work and the police
are writing citations right and left for people using radar
detectors.  One news story quoted an officer as saying that he had
found the radar detector in all of the cars he stopped except one,
and he could never figure out where it was - but he knew it was
there.  This tends to make one assume there are few false arrest.

Now, before I get flamed, please understand that I do drive at or
near the speed limit.  I do not need a radar detector to keep me
from getting a speeding ticket.  But, I do like to know when my
speed is being clocked or a speed trap is functioning.  My radar
detector now stays locked in my trunk when I am in Virginia (which
is what they want - and yes, what the law says, and I intend to
obey the law!) and is only used in states where it is legal.

For my fellow hams, I am not a microwave person - my mind only
works in the HF spectrum between 10 and 80 meters.  Microwave
enlightment may be necessary.

So, the questions are -
  What do the radar detector detectors actually detect?
  Would additional shielding/grounding/bypassing shield stray RF generated by
  a radar detector, or is the RF actually being emitted by the detector
  antenna?
  Are any brands "quieter" than others?

==============================================================================
Randy T. Agee - ARS WB4BZX       | At some point, you probably pondered The 
P.O. Box 2120 - 20th floor       | Meaning of Life, and you came up with a 
Virginia Department of Education | satisfactory answer, which has or has not
Richmond, VA 23216-2120          | stood the test of time, or you shrugged
Phone (804) 225-2669             | mightily, muttered "Beats the heck out of
ragee@vdoe386.vak12ed.edu        | me," and ordered a cheeseburger.
=============================================================================
 
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!magnesium.club.cc.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!sdd.hp.com!hpscit.sc.hp.com!cupnews0.cup.hp.com!dclaar
From: dclaar@cup.hp.com (Doug Claar)
Subject: Los Angeles Freeway traffic reports
Sender: news@cupnews0.cup.hp.com (News Admin)
Message-ID: <C5sLMB.9w6@cup.hp.com>
Date: Tue, 20 Apr 1993 17:22:59 GMT
Nntp-Posting-Host: hprtnyc.cup.hp.com
Organization: Hewlett-Packard
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL8.9]
Lines: 8

While driving through the middle of nowhere, I picked up KNBR, AM 1070,
a clear-channel station based in Los Angeles. They had an ad 
claiming that they were able to get traffic flow information from 
all of the thousands of traffic sensors that CalTrans has placed
under the pavement. Does CalTrans sell this info? Does KNBR have
an exclusive? What's the deal?

==Doug "Former L.A. commuter" Claar
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!emory!athena!aisun3.ai.uga.edu!mcovingt
From: mcovingt@aisun3.ai.uga.edu (Michael Covington)
Subject: Re: Building a UV flashlight
Message-ID: <C5sMC3.32n@athena.cs.uga.edu>
Sender: usenet@athena.cs.uga.edu
Nntp-Posting-Host: aisun3.ai.uga.edu
Organization: AI Programs, University of Georgia, Athens
References: <C5r6Lz.n25@panix.com>
Date: Tue, 20 Apr 1993 17:38:26 GMT
Lines: 13

You can get a *little* UV by putting a heavy UV filter (deep purple) in
front of an ordinary flashlight bulb (the brightest you can get).
My father used a setup like this in law enforcement work circa 1964.

Good UV ("blacklight") bulbs work like fluorescent bulbs.  I'd proceed by
getting a cheap battery-powered _fluorescent_ light, then going to an
electrical supply house and finding a UV bulb that would fit it.

-- 
:-  Michael A. Covington, Associate Research Scientist        :    *****
:-  Artificial Intelligence Programs      mcovingt@ai.uga.edu :  *********
:-  The University of Georgia              phone 706 542-0358 :   *  *  *
:-  Athens, Georgia 30602-7415 U.S.A.     amateur radio N4TMI :  ** *** **  <><
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!lambda.msfc.nasa.gov!sauron!cantrell
From: cantrell@sauron.msfc.nasa.gov (Eric Cantrell)
Subject: EEG Kit?
Message-ID: <cantrell.735330560@sauron.msfc.nasa.gov>
Sender: news@lambda.msfc.nasa.gov (Newsmaster)
Nntp-Posting-Host: sauron.msfc.nasa.gov
Organization: NASA/MSFC
X-Newsreader: NN version 6.4.19
Date: 20 Apr 93 18:29:20 GMT
Lines: 9

Awhile back someone posted some information on where you can get
kits to build an EEG.  Does anyone remember where you could get
this.  I'm very interested in getting some info on this.  Thanks 
in advance.

eric

cantrell@sauron.msfc.nasa      

Xref: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu comp.music:12924 alt.cd-rom:9650 misc.wanted:31143 alt.authorware:47 alt.emusic:968 comp.periphs:6498 sci.electronics:53837
Newsgroups: comp.music,alt.cd-rom,misc.wanted,alt.authorware,alt.emusic,comp.periphs,sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!magnesium.club.cc.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!psgrain!ee.und.ac.za!hippo!shannon!concave.cs.wits.ac.za!geva
From: geva@concave.cs.wits.ac.za (Geva Patz)
Subject: How do I make me own really-short-run CD's
Message-ID: <geva.93.735302940@concave.cs.wits.ac.za>
Summary: I want a really short production run of homemade music CDs -- how?
Keywords: CD mastering pressing homebrew short-run music 
Lines: 13
Sender: news@shannon.ee.wits.ac.za
Organization: Wits University Electrical Engineering
Date: Tue, 20 Apr 1993 10:49:00 GMT

I want to be able to take a bunch of home-made songs (from DAT or other 
suitable master) and output them to a short run (10-20 off) of standard 
music CDs. Would one of the CD recorders designed for writeable CD ROMs work 
for this purpose? Alternatively, is there a service that does this sort of 
thing for a fee? 

I'm after as much information as possible on the alternatives (cost, lead 
time, equipment required, procedure to follow, etc.)  Email replies would be 
appreciated.

%%%%     Geva Patz
 Geva    Department of Computer Science, WITS University
  %%%%   geva@concave.cs.wits.ac.za
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!pacific.mps.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!ira.uka.de!news.dfn.de!hpux.rz.uni-jena.de!news.tu-ilmenau.de!floyd.rz.tu-ilmenau.de!jung
From: jung@rz.tu-ilmenau.de (Dirk Junghanns)
Subject: W86C451, W86C456 info wanted
Message-ID: <1993Apr20.194053.25613@news.tu-ilmenau.de>
Sender: news@news.tu-ilmenau.de (Newsserver)
Nntp-Posting-Host: dali.rz.tu-ilmenau.de
Reply-To: jung@rz.tu-ilmenau.de (Dirk Junghanns)
Organization: Technische Universitaet Ilmenau
Date: Tue, 20 Apr 93 19:40:53 GMT
Lines: 12

Does anybody have informations about the

 W 86 C 451   and  W 86 C 456 chips (40pin DIL pckg)?

They are build in a multifunction io-card for pc.

Thanks 
         Dirk
-- 
------------------------------------------------------------
Dirk Junghanns                    junghanns@rz.tu-ilmenau.de
------------------------------------------------------------
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!magnesium.club.cc.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!utnut!utzoo!censor!feline!gray
From: gray@feline.uucp (Kelly Gray)
Subject: Re: Pinout needed for TIL311
Message-ID: <1993Apr20.153126.16916@feline.uucp>
Sender: Kelly Gray 
Organization: Humber College Technology Dept.
References: <segal.734995860@corolla7>
Date: Tue, 20 Apr 1993 15:31:26 GMT
Lines: 29

 According to my TI databook, the pinouts for the TIL311 display are as
follows:
 
 Pin 1 - LED supply voltage
 Pin 2 - Latch data input B
 Pin 3 - Latch data input A
 Pin 4 - Left decimal point cathode
 Pin 5 - Latch strobe input
 Pin 6 - Omitted
 Pin 7 - Common ground
 Pin 8 - Blanking input
 Pin 9 - Omitted 
 Pin 10 - Right decimal point cathode
 Pin 11 - Omitted
 Pin 12 - Latch data input D
 Pin 13 - Latch data input C
 Pin 14 - Logic supply voltage, Vcc
 
The logic supply voltage is 5V @ 60-90mA. The LED supply is also 5V, but
it need not be particularly well regulated. The LED drivers on the chip
use a constant current source, so LED intensity is not affected by the
supply voltage.
 

-- 

<o_o>    Kelly Gray
         gray@feline.uucp (preferred)
         gray@admin.humberc.on.ca
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!darwin.sura.net!haven.umd.edu!uunet!optilink!elliott
From: elliott@optilink.COM (Paul Elliott)
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Subject: Re: Analog switches/Balanced Demodulators
Message-ID: <15485@optilink.COM>
Date: 21 Apr 93 00:37:22 GMT
References: <msf.734832494@skaro>
Distribution: na
Organization: DSC/Optilink Access Products
Lines: 53

In article <msf.734832494@skaro> msf@skaro.as.arizona.edu (Michael Fulbright) writes:
>I am trying to build a synchronous demodulator and I've hit a snag.
>In my application I want to be able to change the gain of an
>op amp amplifier from 1 to -1, controlable via a digital input.
>The most obvious way I've come up with is to use analog switches
>to adjust the gain of the op amp. The only analog switch I have
>experience with it the 4066. Unfortunately I want to switch an
>AC signal which goes from about -5V to 5V, and the 4066 is only
>for positive signals.
>[...]
> I have a carrier signal which varies between 0V and +5V. I want
>to demodulate an input signal by feeding the input signal thru a
>amp with a gain of 1 when the carrier is at +5V, and thru a amp
>with a gain of -1 when the carrier is 0V. The output is then
>low pass filtered. I believe this is called lock in detection as well
>as synchronous demodulation.

Look at the 4053.  This is a triple 2-to-1 transmission-gate analog
multiplexer, with positive and negative power supplies (can be run
from a single-ended supply as well).  With dual supplies, the logic
inputs still range from ground (0 Volts) to VDD.

This is a neat (well, I think so) design for a switchable-polarity
amplifier:

                 +-----/\/\/\-------+
                 |                  |
                 |    /--------\    |
INPUT -+-/\/\/\--+----| -      |    |
       |              |  opamp |----+------- OUTPUT
       +-/\/\/\--+----| +      |
                 |    \--------/
                 |
CONTROL ---------X (analog switch)
                 |
                 |
                ---
                GND

All resistors are equal-value.  When the analog switch is closed,
the amp is inverting-gain-of-one.  With the switch open, it is
non-inverting-gain-of-one.  You can clean up the circuit to trim
out input offset current if this hurts the balance (this would show
up as carrier feed-through).

For high frequencies, the slew-rate of the opamp might cause problems,
especially if it isn't symmetrical (and it usually isn't).

-- 
--------     Paul Elliott - DSC Optilink - Petaluma, CA USA      ----------
    {uunet,pyramid,tekbspa}!optilink!elliott -or- elliott@optilink.com
       "I used to think I was indecisive, but now I'm not so sure."

Xref: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu misc.consumers.house:45842 sci.electronics:53868
Newsgroups: misc.consumers.house,sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!walter!porthos!dasher!patter
From: patter@dasher.cc.bellcore.com (patterson,george r)
Subject: Re: Power, signal surges in home...
Organization: Bellcore, Livingston, NJ
Date: Wed, 21 Apr 93 02:55:00 GMT
Message-ID: <1993Apr21.025500.8804@porthos.cc.bellcore.com>
References: <DRAND.93Apr20150701@spinner.osf.org> <1r1jmoINN8mb@rave.larc.nasa.gov> <1993Apr20.232804.24632@mprgate.mpr.ca>
Sender: netnews@porthos.cc.bellcore.com (USENET System Software)
Lines: 20

In article <1993Apr20.232804.24632@mprgate.mpr.ca> vanderby@mprgate.mpr.ca (David Vanderbyl) writes:
>kludge@grissom.larc.nasa.gov (Scott Dorsey) writes:
>
>>My car, unfortunately, has so much computer junk under the hood that it's
>>astonishingly sensitive to RFI.  
>
>Hmmmmm... this has possibilities:
>If the police are in pursuit of a vehicle, maybe they can bombard it with
>high energy RFI.  :-)

Right. So all the cops will be buying antique muscle cars for chase cars;
otherwise the *police* cars will die too!

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
                    | To get the attention of a large animal, be it an
                    | elephant or a bureaucracy, it helps to know what
George Patterson -  | part of it feels pain. Be very sure, though, that
                    | you want its full attention.
                    |                            Kelvin Throop
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Xref: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu rec.audio:63910 sci.electronics:53871
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!uwm.edu!csd4.csd.uwm.edu!randyd
From: randyd@csd4.csd.uwm.edu (Randall Elton Ding)
Newsgroups: rec.audio,sci.electronics
Subject: Re: ADCOM GTP500II IR sensor & repeater spec's?
Date: 21 Apr 1993 04:25:36 GMT
Organization: Computing Services Division, University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee
Lines: 48
Message-ID: <1r2ic0INN72i@uwm.edu>
References: <1r1996INNijp@hp-col.col.hp.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: 129.89.7.4

In article <1r1996INNijp@hp-col.col.hp.com> johnr@col.hp.com (John T. Rasper) writes:
>Does anyone know the details of the interface (5 wire din) for the
>IR remote sensor & (2 wire IR repeater) for the ADCOM GTP-500II
>preamp?  The ADCOM part numbers are the XR-500II, SPM-500II, and 
>IRA-500II.
>
>A cursory physical examination of the pre-amp connector indicates
>that the connector (5 pin din) may provide: (Viewed from connector front)
>
>      |
>   5     1     (pin ?) +?v @ ???mA
>    4   2      (pin ?) +/-?v @ ???mA
>      3        (pin 3) Signal Ground
>               (pin ?) Demodulated signal ?V-pp, ? polarity, ? mA drive
>               (pin ?) Signal to drive repeater LED (drives through 150ohm
>                       resistor) ?V-pp
>
>I assume that the repeater connectors (mini-plugs) drive the IR repeater
>LED's directly.  True?
>
>Can anyone fill in the ?'s.  Thanks.
>

Here's the scoop.  When you get your home brew receiver working, would
you be willing to share it with the rest of us?  I always wanted to
build my own but never have the time to fool around and design it.

pin 1:  signal ground
pin 2:  signal
pin 3:  always hot +6 volts
pin 4:  +6 volts, hot only when preamp is turned on
pin 5:  infrared repeater connectors

The infrared repeater jacks on the back of the preamp are not connected
to anything inside the preamp except the 5 pin connector pin #5.  There
is a 150 ohm resistor between the two jacks, with a 1.5K from pin 5 to
ground.

The signal pin #2 in the preamp is summed with the built in IR receiver.
They use a chip called CX20106A and a BJT to amplify the signal.  I would
imagine the logical way would be to duplicate this circuit and use
it as the external receiver.

If you need more info, let me know.

Randy      randyd@csd4.csd.uwm.edu


Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!wupost!fegmania.wustl.edu!pat
From: pat@fegmania.wustl.edu (Pat Niemeyer)
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Subject: Re: Radar detector DETECTORS?
Date: 21 Apr 93 04:42:57 GMT
Organization: Washington University in Saint Louis, MO USA
Lines: 11
Message-ID: <pat.735367377@fegmania.wustl.edu>
References: <1993Apr06.173031.9793@vdoe386.vak12ed.edu> <oxenreid.734127163@chaos.cs.umn.edu> <C5K2rB.Cry@news.iastate.edu>
Reply-To: pat@fegmania.wustl.edu
NNTP-Posting-Host: fegmania.wustl.edu
Originator: pat@fegmania

>>>  Are any brands "quieter" than others?

>Yes some radar detectors are less detectable by radar detector
>detectors. ;-)

I have a Bel-966.
I just looked at the manual yesterday... and it does indeed claim to be
undetectable by RDD's.


Pat
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!newsserver.jvnc.net!newsserver.egr.uri.edu!vader!bailey
From: bailey@vader.egr.uri.edu (Scott Bailey)
Subject: Re: Jacob's Ladder
Message-ID: <C530y1.7C6@egr.uri.edu>
Summary: Jacob's Ladder and other projects
Keywords: jacob's ladder,projects,book
Sender: bailey@vader.egr.uri.edu
Organization: University of Rhode Island / College of Engineering
References: <C4z6x7.16B@murdoch.acc.Virginia.EDU> <1993Apr6.093828.1@travis.llnl.gov>
Date: Tue, 6 Apr 1993 21:56:24 GMT
Lines: 30

Hi all,
 I've been following this thread about jacob's ladder for a few weeks and I
happened to come across one of the best project books that I've seen in a 
while.  The book "Gadgeteer's Goldmine" by Gordon McComb offers over 55 
excellent low cost projects including: Jacob's Ladder, tesla coils, plasma 
spheres, a Van de Graaff generator, robots, an IR scope, and several laser 
projects.  The instructions come with complete part lists, warnings and 
diagrams.  For those of you who are interested in building any of the above 
listed projects, you should seriously consider getting this book.  The 
paperback version is only $19.95 too.

For those who want more information:
Title: Gadgeteer's Goldmine!  55 Space-Age Projects
Auth:  Gordon McComb
Pub:   TAB Books
CW:    1990
ISBN:  0-8306-8360-7
        0-8306-3360-X (paperback)
 Price: $19.95 (paperback)

 -Scott

/-----------------------------------------------------------------------------\
| Scott A. Bailey            | #include "std_disclaimer.h"                    |
| ECL Operator               |------------------------------------------------|
| Computer Engineering       | I'm just a knight who chases the moon...       |
| University of Rhode Island | Haven't caught it yet,but I haven't let that   |
| bailey@vader.egr.uri.edu   | keep me from still trying each day and night   |
| bailey@ecl1.uri.edu        |    --(----------           ----------)--       |
\-----------------------------------------------------------------------------/
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!rochester!udel!louie!newsserver.jvnc.net!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!sdd.hp.com!caen!uvaarpa!uva386!wayne
From: wayne@uva386.schools.virginia.edu (Tony Wayne)
Subject: speaker impedance help needed
Message-ID: <1993Apr21.184232.14324@uva386.schools.virginia.edu>
Organization: Virginia's Public Education Network (Charlottesville)
Date: Wed, 21 Apr 93 18:42:32 GMT
Lines: 7

           I want to connect a very small "home-made" speaker
up to the headphone jack on my macintosh LC for an experiment.
The dc resistance of the speaker is 1 ohm.  Any ideas how I can
do this safely?  I think I need some kind of an impedance
transformer or something.?
-tony
 wayne@uva386.school.virginia.edu 
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!rochester!cornell!batcomputer!caen!sdd.hp.com!col.hp.com!fc.hp.com!cfb
From: cfb@fc.hp.com (Charlie Brett)
Subject: FET-TRONS(sp?)
Sender: news@fc.hp.com (news daemon)
Message-ID: <C5uKMw.G1o@fc.hp.com>
Date: Wed, 21 Apr 1993 18:56:56 GMT
Nntp-Posting-Host: hpfcmgw.fc.hp.com
Organization: Hewlett-Packard Fort Collins Site
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL8.5]
Lines: 5

Has anyone ever heard of FET-TRONS (or is it FETRONS, FETTRONS, ...).
These were FET replacement modules for vacuum tubes. I'm looking for
applications where they were used. 

       Charlie Brett - HP Ft. Collins
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!rochester!udel!darwin.sura.net!paladin.american.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!saimiri.primate.wisc.edu!usenet.coe.montana.edu!news.u.washington.edu!carson.u.washington.edu!whit
From: whit@carson.u.washington.edu (John Whitmore)
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Subject: Re: Suggestions  on Audio relays ???
Date: 21 Apr 1993 21:00:36 GMT
Organization: University of Washington, Seattle
Lines: 20
Message-ID: <1r4clkINNgpo@shelley.u.washington.edu>
References: <C5qsBF.IEK@ms.uky.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: carson.u.washington.edu

In article <C5qsBF.IEK@ms.uky.edu> billq@ms.uky.edu (Billy Quinn) writes:
>I built a little project using the radio shack 5vdc relays to switch
>audio.  I got pretty bad 'clicks' when the thing switched. 

>       Is there a good relay/relay circuit that I can use for switching
>audio, so that there will be *NO* noise of any kind on the audio lines.

        With relays alone, you will always get a transient when
you abruptly turn ON or OFF any channel.  If you don't want to hear
the transient, use some other device (a photoresistor-output optoisolator
is the usual sort of thing) to gently MUTE the signal, then switch,
THEN remove the power from the lamp in the optoisolator.

        It used to be standard practice to employ photoresistors
in switching audio, because the photoresistor time delay (a few
thousandths of a second) kept any noise in the digital side (which
drives the lamp) from contaminating the audio.  And, the devices
are cheaper than relays.

        John Whitmore
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!magnesium.club.cc.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!lehman.com!newshost!jbore
From: jbore@cosmos.shearson.com (Joe Bore)
Subject: Re: Need to find out number to a phone line
In-Reply-To: alee@ecs.umass.edu's message of 18 Apr 93 15:04:10 GMT
Message-ID: <JBORE.93Apr21134125@cosmos.shearson.com>
Sender: news@lehman.com (News)
Organization: Lehman Brothers
References: <20756.2bd16dea@ecs.umass.edu>
Date: Wed, 21 Apr 1993 17:41:25 GMT
Lines: 33



try finding a friend that has caller id, then give him a call...

jb


In article <20756.2bd16dea@ecs.umass.edu> alee@ecs.umass.edu writes:

   Path: shearson.com!uupsi!psinntp!uunet!haven.umd.edu!darwin.sura.net!newsserver.jvnc.net!howland.reston.ans.net!noc.near.net!nic.umass.edu!risky.ecs.umass.edu!umaecs!alee
   From: alee@ecs.umass.edu
   Newsgroups: sci.electronics
   Date: 18 Apr 93 15:04:10 GMT
   Lines: 13


   Greetings!

           Situation:  I have a phone jack mounted on a wall.  I don't
                       know the number of the line.  And I don't want
                       to call up the operator to place a trace on it.

           Question:   Is there a certain device out there that I can
                       use to find out the number to the line?
           Thanks for any response.
                                                       Al


--
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Joe Bore                                         | "Life is Short...Code Hard"
jbore@Shearson.COM | ...!uunet!shearson.com!jbore| 
(212)464-3431, Beeper:  (212)396-4248            |
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!rochester!udel!darwin.sura.net!news-feed-1.peachnet.edu!gatech!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!cs.utexas.edu!asuvax!ncar!noao!amethyst!organpipe.uug.arizona.edu!afthree.as.arizona.edu!tom
From: tom@afthree.as.arizona.edu (Thomas J. Trebisky)
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Subject: Re: A question about 120VAC outlet wiring..
Keywords: outlet
Message-ID: <1993Apr21.205802.22855@organpipe.uug.arizona.edu>
Date: 21 Apr 93 20:58:02 GMT
References: <1993Apr14.172145.27458@ecsvax.uncecs.edu> <1993Apr14.193122.20818@mprgate.mpr.ca> <1qids1INNebl@chnews.intel.com>
Sender: news@organpipe.uug.arizona.edu
Organization: Steward Observatory, Univ. of Arizona, Tucson
Lines: 19

crichmon@sedona.intel.com (Chris Richmond) writes:
>Well, my house was built just last year, and the breaker box is wired the
>same way.  All the white and ground wires are on a common bus.  Except for
>the 220V circuits, only black wires are hooked to the breakers.  It was
>the same way in the last two houses I had also.  Are you sure this is wrong?
>I still have the building inspector's signature on the breaker box.

The point is that the original poster was talking about connecting
ground and neutral in the *outlet* box (big NO NO), and you are talking
about them being connected in the breaker box (as things should be).

If this is not obvious, the point is that there should be current
flow in the white, i.e. neutral/return wires when things in the
house are operating.  There should not be any flow in the ground wires
unless there is a fault condition.  Notice also that in the breaker box
there is a wire leading from the above-mentioned junction to earth ground,
usually a pipe or spike driven into the ground.
-- 
        Tom Trebisky    ttrebisky@as.arizona.edu
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!agate!ames!purdue!yuma!galen
From: galen@picea.CFNR.ColoState.EDU (Galen Watts)
Subject: Re: Suggestions  on Audio relays ???
Sender: news@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU (News Account)
Message-ID: <Apr21.141607.55058@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU>
Date: Wed, 21 Apr 1993 14:16:07 GMT
References: <C5qsBF.IEK@ms.uky.edu> <C5r60r.4ID@megatest.com> <1993Apr20.102756.1709@mala.bc.ca>
Nntp-Posting-Host: storm.cfnr.colostate.edu
Organization:  Colorado Concert Sound
Lines: 25

In article <1993Apr20.102756.1709@mala.bc.ca> wagner@mala.bc.ca (TOM WAGNER, Wizzard of old Audio/Visual Equipment........Nanaimo Campus) writes:
>In article <C5r60r.4ID@megatest.com>, alung@megatest.com (Aaron Lung) writes:
>> In article <C5qsBF.IEK@ms.uky.edu> billq@ms.uky.edu (Billy Quinn) writes:
>>>I built a little project using the radio shack 5vdc relays to switch
>>>audio.  I got pretty bad 'clicks' when the thing switched.  I was doing
>>>My question is:
>>>     Is there a good relay/relay circuit that I can use for switching
>>>audio, so that there will be *NO* noise of any kind on the audio lines.
>> 
>> Are you switching high level signals or low level signals like pre-amp
>A novel circuit I used to build was a primitive "optical isolator".. It consists
>of a resistive photocell and a lamp, all packaged in a tube.  When the lamp is
>off the cell is high resistance.  Turn the lamp on and the resistance lowers

I use an H11F1   FET optoisolater to switch microphone level signals.
There is no click, since I put a .1uF cap across the LED.  Distortion
measurement are very low with mic level, and they went up to 0.03% at a
+ 14 dB line level.  All I did was put the FET in series with one leg
of the balanced line.  No hums, pops, just audio jumping out of silence.
The FET runs about 100 million ohms with the LED dark and drops to 150-200
ohms with it on.

Hey, it works, and works well.
Galen Watts, KF0YJ

Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!magnesium.club.cc.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!darwin.sura.net!haven.umd.edu!purdue!yuma!galen
From: galen@picea.CFNR.ColoState.EDU (Galen Watts)
Subject: Re: Beginner's RF ???
Sender: news@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU (News Account)
Message-ID: <Apr21.212736.28164@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU>
Date: Wed, 21 Apr 1993 21:27:36 GMT
Distribution: na
References: <C5sr8H.JpH@cbnewsl.cb.att.com>
Nntp-Posting-Host: storm.cfnr.colostate.edu
Organization: College of Natural Resources, Colo. State Univ.
Lines: 16

In article <C5sr8H.JpH@cbnewsl.cb.att.com> klink@cbnewsl.cb.att.com (steven.r.klinkner) writes:
>Can anybody recommend a good, application-oriented beginner's reference
>to RF circuits?  
>Steve Klinkner                AT&T Bell Labs               srk@boeing.att.com

I have the ARRL Handbook for the Radio AMateur, and I'm getting the
Solid STate Design for the Radio Amateur.

The handbook is $25 and Solid State is $12 from ARRL, 225 Main, Newington,
CT 06111 but you should be able to find them at electronics or amateur radio
stores.
ARRL will want $5 or so for shipping.
Good Luck,
Galen Watts, KF0YJ


Xref: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu comp.os.msdos.programmer:23234 alt.msdos.programmer:6786 sci.electronics:53921
Newsgroups: comp.os.msdos.programmer,alt.msdos.programmer,sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!noc.near.net!uunet!pipex!sunic!ericom!exucom.exu.ericsson.se!exu.ericsson.se!exuptr
From: exuptr@exu.ericsson.se (Patrick Taylor, The Sounding Board)
Subject: Re: How to the disks copy protected.
Message-ID: <exuptr.1398.0@exu.ericsson.se>
Sender: news@exu.ericsson.se
Nntp-Posting-Host: 138.85.253.85
Organization: Ericsson Network Systems, Inc.
References: <sehari.735331566@marge.ecss.iastate.edu> <1993Apr20.230749.12821@reed.edu> <sehari.735357542@du139-213.cc.iastate.edu> <1993Apr21.131908.29582@uhura.neoucom.edu>
Date: Wed, 21 Apr 1993 14:33:14 GMT
X-Disclaimer: This article was posted by a user at Ericsson.
              Any opinions expressed are strictly those of the
              user and not necessarily those of Ericsson.
Lines: 36

In article <1993Apr21.131908.29582@uhura.neoucom.edu> wtm@uhura.neoucom.edu (Bill Mayhew) writes:
>From: wtm@uhura.neoucom.edu (Bill Mayhew)
>Subject: Re: How to the disks copy protected.
>Date: Wed, 21 Apr 1993 13:19:08 GMT

>Write a good manual to go with the software.  The hassle of
>photocopying the manual is offset by simplicity of purchasing
>the package for only $15.  Also, consider offering an inexpensive
>but attractive perc for registered users.  For instance, a coffee
>mug.  You could produce and mail the incentive for a couple of
>dollars, so consider pricing the product at $17.95.

Or, _documentation_ for the program ;-).  A lot of shareware out there is 
very similar in the approach - send in your money, and you get 
documentation, and a free upgrade to the latest version.  Perhaps even 
support of some small degree.  Whatever you want to offer that is "better" 
than the circulating version.

>You're lucky if only 20% of the instances of your program in use
>are non-licensed users.

Figure about 50%, as I have seen.

>The best approach is to estimate your loss and accomodate that into
>your price structure.  Sure it hurts legitimate users, but too bad.

It doesn't really hurt legit users.  Shareware is still much cheaper than 
the alternatives.

 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
 ---------Visit the SOUNDING BOARD BBS +1 214 596 2915, a Wildcat! BBS-------

 ObDis: All opinions are specifically disclaimed. No one is responsible.

    Patrick Taylor, Ericsson Network Systems  THX-1138
    exuptr@exu.ericsson.se                    "Don't let the .se fool you"
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!utnut!utzoo!henry
From: henry@zoo.toronto.edu (Henry Spencer)
Subject: Re: HELP: MC146818A Real Time Clock Standby Mode
Message-ID: <C5uCDu.1Ip@zoo.toronto.edu>
Date: Wed, 21 Apr 1993 15:58:40 GMT
References: <1r0b69INN5ct@flash.pax.tpa.com.au>
Organization: U of Toronto Zoology
Lines: 20

In article <1r0b69INN5ct@flash.pax.tpa.com.au> mgregory@flash.pax.tpa.com.au (Martin John Gregory) writes:
>I am having trouble obtaining the specified standby current drain from
>a MC146818A Real Time Clock...
>lowest current drain I can acheive at 3.7V Vcc is 150uA.  This is
>three times the specified MAXIMUM...
>1) Made sure that RESET/ is asserted for Trlh after powerup, and AS is
>   low during this time.
>2) Made sure that there is a cycle on AS after the negation of RD/ or
>   WR/ during which STBY/ was asserted...

Are any of the inputs to the chip coming from TTL?  Standby-drain specs
for CMOS chips typically apply only if inputs are pulled all the way down
to zero or all the way up to Vcc.  TTL isn't good at doing the former and
it won't do the latter at all without help from pullup resistors.  This
sort of thing can easily multiply power consumption by a considerable
factor, because the CMOS transistors that are supposed to be OFF aren't
all the way hard OFF.
-- 
All work is one man's work.             | Henry Spencer @ U of Toronto Zoology
                    - Kipling           |  henry@zoo.toronto.edu  utzoo!henry
Xref: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu comp.robotics:5376 sci.electronics:53938
Newsgroups: comp.robotics,sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!magnesium.club.cc.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!sample.eng.ohio-state.edu!purdue!mentor.cc.purdue.edu!noose.ecn.purdue.edu!dynamo.ecn.purdue.edu!wb9omc
From: wb9omc@dynamo.ecn.purdue.edu (Duane P Mantick)
Subject: Re: Long distance IR detection
Message-ID: <wb9omc.735430855@dynamo.ecn.purdue.edu>
Sender: news@noose.ecn.purdue.edu (USENET news)
Organization: Purdue University Engineering Computer Network
References: <1993Apr20.183416.18744@dres.dnd.ca>
Date: Wed, 21 Apr 1993 22:20:55 GMT
Lines: 44

sburton@dres.dnd.ca (Stan Burton) writes:

>I would like to be able to detect the angular position (low accuracy) of an
>IR emitting source at a distance of about 100 meters (more is better) in
>daylight.  The IR source could be emitting a signature; I'm leaning toward
>30 KHz square wave with 50% duty cycle.

>I am considering the use of a quadrant detector from Centronic Inc. to give
>information to a pan/tilt head to point the sensor and thus determine the
>angles.  For the source I am considering wazing the heck out of an IR LED(s),
>possibly an Optek OP290 or Motorola MLED81.  Wazing would mean at least 1 Amp
>current pulses.  At this current the duty cycle of the LED drops to 10% and I
>would need to cycle five of them in turn to get the 50% required.

>Has anyone done something like this?


        Yeesh, you WILL be nailing those IRLEDs.  May I suggest getting your
mitts on the Siemens SFH484-2 IRLED?  This unit is designed to take some big
current pulses if you can get your duty cycle down a bit.  It will output
nearly a watt (975 mW) with REAL short duty cycle times.

(nice thing about the SFH484-2 is that it is CHEAP.  I got mine for about
50 cents a piece, even though I had to buy 100 of them....)

        BTW, I have seen IRLEDs with outputs up to 6 watts...honest,
6 WATTS.  I don't have the book here at work so I can't recall the company
name.  The 6 watter ain't cheap, around $108 but if you want some power,
mamamia, that's pretty hot.  They also have a 4 watt, a 2 watt and a
1 watt device in their line, and will sell small quan. to individuals.
If you are interested, I can find the book at home and get the
pertinent info.

        Now, as for the position detector, you might try ELTEC in Florida.
Phone number listed in the 92/93 ETID is 904-253-5328.  They seem like 
nice people.  Their specialty is passive infrared detection devices,
so they might be able to help you out.

        I'm curious about your applications if you don't mind saying.
The device sounds like it could be useful in a lasertag game, although you'd
need to up your carrier signal concept to 58.8 KHz......

Duane

Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!agate!boulder!ucsu!rintintin.Colorado.EDU!gleasokr
From: gleasokr@rintintin.Colorado.EDU (Kris Gleason)
Subject: Re: Electric power line "balls"
Message-ID: <gleasokr.734134364@rintintin.Colorado.EDU>
Sender: news@ucsu.Colorado.EDU (USENET News System)
Nntp-Posting-Host: rintintin.colorado.edu
Organization: University of Colorado, Boulder
References: <1993Apr6.203237.20841@eagle.lerc.nasa.gov>
Distribution: usa
Date: Tue, 6 Apr 1993 22:12:44 GMT
Lines: 23

fsset@bach.lerc.nasa.gov (Scott Townsend) writes:

>I got a question from my dad which I really can't answer and I'd appreciate
>some net.wisdom.

>His question is about some 18-24" diameter balls which are attached to
>electric power lines in his area.  He's seen up to a half dozen between
>two poles.  Neither of us have any experience with electric power distribution.
>My only guess was that they may be a capacitive device to equalize the
>inductance of the grid, but why so many between two poles?.

>Anyone know what they really are?  Is there a related FAQ for this?
>Is there a better group to submit to?

>We'd both appreciate some enlightenment.

I think those are to make the lines more visible to airplanes and
helicopters... cheaper than blinking red lights.

'course I could be wrong.

Kris

Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!elroy.jpl.nasa.gov!nntp-server.caltech.edu!franko
From: franko@cco.caltech.edu (Frank Filipanits)
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Subject: Re: arcade style buttons and joysticks
Date: 22 Apr 1993 03:36:07 GMT
Organization: California Institute of Technology, Pasadena
Lines: 19
Message-ID: <1r53r8INNq0i@gap.caltech.edu>
References: <1993Apr21.024036.7394@lynx.dac.northeastern.edu> <1r487b$9g7@jethro.Corp.Sun.COM>
NNTP-Posting-Host: alumni.caltech.edu

> > Can anyone tell me where it is possible to purchase controls found
> > on most arcade style games.  Many projects I am working on would
> > be greatly augmented if I could implement them.  Thanx in advance.

>HAP controls just outside Chicago sells these.
>                                               Andrew MacRae

Actually, it's HAPP, and some of their equipment can be found in the 
Parts Express catalog (1-800-338-0531).  They show switches for $2,
joysticks for $13 and trackballs for $80.  They also have pinball parts.

Good luck.


-- 
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
Frank Filipanits Jr.    B.S. EE/Music, California Institute of Technology '92
Audio Consultant          M.S. Music Engineering, University of Miami     '94
franko@alumni.caltech.edu   "No, officer, I don't know how fast I was going."
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!saimiri.primate.wisc.edu!doug.cae.wisc.edu!kolstad
From: kolstad@cae.wisc.edu (Joel Kolstad)
Subject: Re: Can Radio Freq. Be Used To Measure Distance?
Organization: U of Wisconsin-Madison College of Engineering
Date: 22 Apr 93 00:01:11 CDT
Message-ID: <1993Apr22.000112.20235@doug.cae.wisc.edu>
References: <C5v13M.C37@bcstec.ca.boeing.com>
Lines: 25

In article <C5v13M.C37@bcstec.ca.boeing.com> rgc3679@bcstec.ca.boeing.com (Robert G. Carpenter) writes:
>I'm wondering if it's possible to use radio waves to measure the
>distance between a transmitter(s) and receiver?

Yes, you could.

>Seems to me that you should be able to measure the signal strength
>and determine distance. This would be for short distances (2000 ft),
>and I would need to have accuracy of 6 inches, or so.

Well, letsee (whipping out HP-48SX, soon to be GX): 6 inches/3*10^8 m/s=.5
nanoseconds resolution.  Hmm.  That'll be rather difficult!

The more standard (read: better) method is to use ultrasound, generally
somewhere around 40kHz.  Sound travels a heck of a lot slower than light
(radio waves), and is therefore much easier to deal with.

>What frequencies would be best for this? Or does matter?

It might be easiest to visit a hardware store and look at the numerous
"sonic estimator" type devices that do what you want here.  Many are pretty 
cheap too -- <$30.  (In fact, for awhile the Stanley Estimator was selling
for something like $8.  That's the one I bought! :-) )

                                        ---Joel Kolstad
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!magnesium.club.cc.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!newsflash.concordia.ca!nstn.ns.ca!dragon.acadiau.ca!880518l
From: 880518l@dragon.acadiau.ca (Nelson Langille)
Subject: Re: Need Info on DSP project
Message-ID: <1993Apr22.132201.15562@dragon.acadiau.ca>
Organization: Acadia University
References: <735344986@ee.ualberta.ca> <288200082@trsvax>
Date: Thu, 22 Apr 1993 13:22:01 GMT
Lines: 2

There is a file at the simtel archives called adda10.zip I think that
is for DSP.
Xref: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu comp.os.msdos.programmer:23278 alt.msdos.programmer:6792 sci.electronics:54010
Newsgroups: comp.os.msdos.programmer,alt.msdos.programmer,sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!noc.near.net!uunet!mnemosyne.cs.du.edu!nyx!ggruscho
From: ggruscho@nyx.cs.du.edu (George Gruschow)
Subject: Re: How to the disks copy protected.
Message-ID: <1993Apr22.175926.21347@mnemosyne.cs.du.edu>
Sender: usenet@mnemosyne.cs.du.edu (netnews admin account)
Organization: University of Denver, Dept. of Math & Comp. Sci.
References: <sehari.735331566@marge.ecss.iastate.edu> <1993Apr20.230749.12821@reed.edu> <sehari.735357542@du139-213.cc.iastate.edu>
Date: Thu, 22 Apr 93 17:59:26 GMT
Lines: 98

sehari@iastate.edu (Babak Sehari) writes:

>In <1993Apr20.230749.12821@reed.edu> mblock@reed.edu (Matt Block) writes:

>>In article <sehari.735331566@marge.ecss.iastate.edu> sehari@iastate.edu (Babak Sehari) writes:
>>>---
>>>
>>>I was wondering, what copy protection techniques are avaliable, and how
>>>effective are they?  Has anyone have any experience in this area?
>>>
>>>                      With highest regards,
>>>                           Babak   Sehari.

>>      Uh oh...
>>      Umm, there are a number of copy protection schemes.  Some involve
>>modifying the physical media, and some involve encryption schemes, &c.
>>      All of the ones that have existed over the course of computing have
>>been successful for a time.  I recall, however, near monthly releases of new
>>ways to "crack" the copy protection scheme of the latest releases.  The fact
>>is, none of them are completely secure, or anywhere near it.  Some are more or
>>less difficult to crack, and some have already been cracked.
>>      I guess what I am saying is that your question is difficult, if not
>>impossible, to answer.  What exactly do you want to know?  Do you need a good
>>one for a project you are working on?  How secure must it be?  Are you trying
>>to crack one that someone else has used?  I can probably make suggestions,
>>assuming the activity is strictly legal.  (In general, it is a BAD idea,
>>legally, to tamper with copy protection.  It can also lead to corruption of
>>files which you necessarily do not have back ups of (being as they are copy
>>protected,) which can be devestating.)  Do you have absolutely no ideas for
>>practical applications, and are merely curious?
>>      Please clear up those questions, and I'll try to help as much as I
>>can.

>>      Incidentally, the "Uh oh..." at the top is indicative of the dread
>>anyone who has watched their friends hacking equipment be carted off feels
>>when they are asked how to hack.  The area you are broaching is wrought with
>>dangers, many of which include breaking the law, or at least addressing it
>>(from one side or the other.)

>>Matt

>I have written a program and I want to market it.  I would like certain degree
>of protection, since my main custmers are individuals and not the 
>cooperations.   I know laser hole burning method, and hardware key method,
>however, my  software is going to cost only $15.00, so I can not afford that.
>Also, at this low price I can not afford people make too many copy of my
>software. Well, I guess say upto %20 illigal copying is ok by me.

>However, I do not want someone to get a copy of PCTools and copy my software.  
>Off course, I never meant to forbid the true hackers from copying, since they
>can develope a better program anyway.

>                      With highest regards,
>                           Babak   Sehari.


>-- 

One of the most popular methods of course is the password check where they ask
you for a word from page x, line y, and word z, but this is pitifully simple to
remove unless you throw some checksums into the main part of your program, and
some self-rewriting code to confuse some people.  Also, make sure that your
program can not be run out a debugger.

Another method of course is to not even make bad sectors on the original disk,
just write a certain key to a certain unallocated sector.   To help you here,
you also must do the code protection schemes mentioned in the first paragraph.
Make sure you also fill the rest of the unallocated parts of the disk with
garbage as well, or they (wanna be crackers) can just look for the junk in
some random sector.

Like you mentioned, there are the laser holed disks and hardware keys, but they
are both expensive and a pain in the butt for the end-user, which you is the
opposite of what you want.

Another configuration that can be used is to save the configuration of the
machine that it is being installed to in the most undecipherable format you can
think of.  If the program does not find that this is the same system, it
requests being installed by the original disk again.  The original disk should
be encrypted, compacted, have many sectors that should be checked, and anything
else you can think of to make sure that the original cannot be copied.  Once
again, you MUST put code-encryption, self-rewriting code, and multiple CRC
checks in the program to make sure that it does not get changed.  Among other
things, this also protects your program from virii.  If the program detects a
change in its code, tell the user that a virus has been detected in the
program.  Tell them the program is "VIRUS SECURE", and remember, you have
helped the world kill some pirating and kill some viruses.  Feel good.

I hope that I have helped.  Have fun.  Knock some cracking out (well, you can't
do it, everything that can be written can be cracked, but you'll piss'em off in
the process!). Goodbye.

What is the program that will be sold?
--
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
George Gruschow                                Death do you gronk.
ag625@yfn.ysu.edu                              ggruscho@nyx.cs.du.edu
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!ogicse!uwm.edu!cs.utexas.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!darwin.sura.net!ukma!news
From: msunde01@mik.uky.edu (Mark  Underwood)
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Subject: Re: Radar detector DETECTORS?
Message-ID: <C5wnBG.FAp@ms.uky.edu>
Date: 22 Apr 93 21:50:03 GMT
Article-I.D.: ms.C5wnBG.FAp
References: <C5usK6.H2H@athena.cs.uga.edu>
Sender: news@ms.uky.edu (USENET News System)
Reply-To: msunde01@mik.uky.edu
Organization: University Of Kentucky, Dept. of Math Sciences
Lines: 27
Nntp-Posting-Host: nx34.mik.uky.edu

In article <C5usK6.H2H@athena.cs.uga.edu> mcovingt@aisun1.ai.uga.edu  
(Michael Covington) writes:
> There is or was a microwave tower next to Florida's Turnpike, and you
> could watch the cars hit the breaks as they came in sight of it every
> morning...
> 

Funny . . . I and most of the detector-owning friends I have, are  
generally able to *REMEMBER* such things as nearby microwave towers and  
radar detectors going off in EXACTLY the same spon EVERY DAY . . ..

I know on I-64 at the Grayson, KY exit, there's a store just off the side  
of the road (think it's a Liquor store . . .) with what must be a security  
system that would make most federal prisons proud.  It's the only thing  
I've ever driven by (besides a cop) that puts my Whistler in "Oh my God  
he's Right Behind You!!!!" mode . . ..  I simply ignore the detector and  
use my eyes when I drive by that store . . . 40 seconds later, all's quiet  
on the front and no problem.


:-) :-)

Mark S. Underwood
EE Student, University of Kentucky
Lab Assistant, Boyd Hall Microlab 
        (a tiny little division of UK Library Microlabs)
E-Mail:  msunde01@mik.uky.edu
Xref: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu comp.os.msdos.programmer:23292 alt.msdos.programmer:6797 sci.electronics:54042
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!ogicse!flop.ENGR.ORST.EDU!xanth.CS.ORST.EDU!noeler
From: noeler@xanth.CS.ORST.EDU (Eric Richard Noel)
Newsgroups: comp.os.msdos.programmer,alt.msdos.programmer,sci.electronics
Subject: Re: How to the disks copy protected.
Message-ID: <1r76sbINNkap@flop.ENGR.ORST.EDU>
Date: 22 Apr 93 22:40:11 GMT
Article-I.D.: flop.1r76sbINNkap
References: <1993Apr21.085848.12704W@lumina.edb.tih.no> <1993Apr21.141137.863@imag.fr> <1993Apr22.180747.21756@mnemosyne.cs.du.edu>
Organization: Oregon State University
Lines: 28
NNTP-Posting-Host: xanth.cs.orst.edu

>
>>Hey, now will you stop encouraging him? Copy protection only serves one pur-
>>pose: to keep the honest buyer from making (legal) backup copies. It will
>>definitely not stop any pirates. If you want to protect you soft, supply a
>>good documentation and support. This is IMHO the *only* way of effectively pro
>>tecting software.
>>Best Regards,
>>Arno

I strongly disagree. I think most pirating is done by amateurs, who won't
copy the program if "diskcopy" can't do it.
If you're talking a 20% max goal of pirated copies, I bet that anything that
will beat diskcopy, and can't be easily copied from a hard drive, will
suffice.
I hate hard copy manuals, and would rather have all docs online - *not*
because I want to copy the program, but because its usually faster and
and convenient than sifting through an old book I can't find.

Off deeper end-> Why does everyone think they need to be able to make a 
backup copy? Almost all new software must be installed to the hard disk,
so you are left with the originals as your backups. I think its a waste
of time, space, and money, as well as it makes it to tempting to "lend"
out the backups. 


No flames intended - just my thoughts.

Eric
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!magnesium.club.cc.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!ces-3.ee.twsu.edu!butts#
From: butts#@shocker.ee.twsu.edu (Ronald W. Butts -SUPER ACCT)
Subject: Re: Need to find out numb
Message-ID: <butts#.104.735541800@shocker.ee.twsu.edu>
Sender: nobody@ctr.columbia.edu
Organization: Electrical Engr. Dept, Wichita State Univ.
References: <6208.442.uupcb@ozonehole.com>
Date: Fri, 23 Apr 1993 05:10:00 GMT
X-Posted-From: ces-3.ee.twsu.edu
NNTP-Posting-Host: sol.ctr.columbia.edu
Lines: 35

In article <6208.442.uupcb@ozonehole.com> gerald.belton@ozonehole.com (
Gerald Belton)  writes

>Subject: Need to find out numb
>Date: 20 Apr 93 12:18:00 GMT

>AL>There is a number you can call which will return a synthesized
>AL>voice telling you the number of the line.  Unfortunately, for the
>AL>life of me I can't remember what it is. The telephone technicians
>AL>use it all the time.  We used to play around with this in our
>AL>dorm rooms since there were multiple phone lines running between
>AL>rooms.
>
>It probably wouldn't help for you to post the number, since it appears
>to be different in each area.  For what it's worth, in the New Orleans
>area the number is 998-877-6655 (easy to remember, what?)
>
>
> * SLMR 2.1 * Ask me anything: if I don't know, I'll make up something.
>                                          

Here in our city, dialing either 940-7222 (newer exchanges) or 940-2222222 [
sic] will get a synthesized message. Works great for having people call you 
back at unlabeled pay phones.

Regards,
Bill


+------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| Ronald W. (Bill) Butts, Jr.        |      Gentlemen! Gentlemen!        |
| Electrical Engineering Department  |    You can't fight in here--      |
| The Wichita State University       |       This is the War Room!       |
| butts@shocker.ee.twsu.edu          |                                   |
+------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!noc.near.net!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!pipex!uknet!nessie!sl
From: sl@nessie.mcc.ac.uk (Stuart Lea)
Subject: Anyone build anything interesting with PIC16C5X devices ?
Message-ID: <1993Apr23.071421.23701@nessie.mcc.ac.uk>
Organization: Manchester Computing Centre
Date: Fri, 23 Apr 1993 07:14:21 GMT
Lines: 16


I've just started programming with the PIC16c57 and I'd like talk to similar
like minded people ?  Have you built anything interesting, if so, I'd be
interested in talking about various aspects.

Yes, I already have the application sheets, assembler & simulator.

Cheers,

Stuart

-- 
+-Stuart Lea--Tel:061 200 4809--Fax:061 200 4019---UMIST University-----------+
| JANET   :   sl@uk.ac.mcc.nessie                  B22, Main Bldg., PO Box 88 |
| INTERNET:   sl@nessie.mcc.ac.uk                  Manchester, UK M60 1QD     |
+-----------------"Weather is here, wish you were beautiful"------------------+
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!noc.near.net!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!pipex!uknet!mcsun!news.funet.fi!news.cs.tut.fi!kuusama
From: kuusama@kaarne.cs.tut.fi (Kuusama Juha,,,VTT,)
Subject: Why circuit boards are green?
Message-ID: <1993Apr23.105152.20155@news.cs.tut.fi>
Originator: kuusama@kaarne.cs.tut.fi
Sender: usenet@news.cs.tut.fi (#Kotilo NEWS system )
Nntp-Posting-Host: kaarne.cs.tut.fi
Reply-To: kuusama@kaarne.cs.tut.fi
Organization: Tampere University of Technology, Dep. of Computer Science
Date: Fri, 23 Apr 1993 10:51:52 GMT
Lines: 7

Not that the question is anything important, but I am still curious:
Why is that almost all printed circuit boards are green? I have seen
a few blue ones, but no red, yellow, company logo etc. Is there a
technical reason or could it be that the marketing "geniuses" have
not tought about it (yet)?
--
Juha
Xref: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu comp.os.msdos.programmer:23332 alt.msdos.programmer:6810 sci.electronics:54090
Newsgroups: comp.os.msdos.programmer,alt.msdos.programmer,sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!noc.near.net!howland.reston.ans.net!agate!news.ucdavis.edu!csus.edu!sfsuvax1.sfsu.edu!kschang
From: kschang@sfsuvax1.sfsu.edu (Kuo-Sheng (Kasey) Chang)
Subject: Re: How to the disks copy protected.
Message-ID: <1993Apr23.171020.23982@csus.edu>
Sender: news@csus.edu
Organization: San Francisco State University
References: <1993Apr21.141137.863@imag.fr> <1993Apr22.163605.24784@csus.edu> <rcstage1.128.735548462@urc.tue.nl>
Date: Fri, 23 Apr 1993 17:10:20 GMT
Lines: 31

In article <rcstage1.128.735548462@urc.tue.nl> rcstage1@urc.tue.nl (Guido Klemans) writes:
>In article <1993Apr22.163605.24784@csus.edu> kschang@sfsuvax1.sfsu.edu (Kuo-Sheng (Kasey) Chang) writes:

>[byteocide]

>>What I believe the companies should do is implement the above plus
>>a special patch once the user registers that loudly exclaims upon bootup
>>"REGISTERED TO XXXXX -- address, city, state zip" and disables the above.
>>Two benefits: 1) encourages registration, 2) cuts down on pirating and
>>makes it more traceable, because if the patch's registration message is
>>encrypted, it will be quite hard to change, and therefore provides a
>>stable trail of who allowed their copy out of their hands, and thus
>>violated their license agreement.
>>
>You take two copies with a different registration id, compare them byte for 
>byte and you know where they are located. Usually you will be able to 
>find out what is what after that. 

Probably, but the point is THE COMPANY make the registration patch, NOT
YOU.  Sure, you can probably find another registerred user and compare notes,
but WHY?  It's not hindering you in any way unless you are just hacking.
[Problem about people who cut TOO MUCH from quoting...]

>And what keeps me form registering as John Doe from the company Public 
>Domain, Yellow Brick Road 1, Tinseltown or something???

Nothing, but if you read my WHOLE suggestion, I'm saying that you register
via MAIL by mailing in your registration card, THEN the company send you
the patch which includes the info you put on the registration card.

--Kasey Chang
Xref: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu rec.audio.car:9699 rec.audio:63249 sci.electronics:52822
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!ogicse!decwrl!olivea!charnel!rat!zeus!news
From: mneideng@thidwick.acs.calpoly.edu (Mark Neidengard)
Newsgroups: rec.audio.car,rec.audio,sci.electronics
Subject: Re: What is Zero dB????
Message-ID: <1993Apr06.232039.106816@zeus.calpoly.edu>
Date: 6 Apr 93 23:20:39 GMT
Article-I.D.: zeus.1993Apr06.232039.106816
References: <1pkveuINNduk@gap.caltech.edu> <1993Apr6.132429.16154@bnr.ca>
Sender: news@zeus.calpoly.edu
Organization: Academic Computing Services, Cal Poly San Luis Obispo
Lines: 13

>>: The Ohmite company was the first to characterize resistances by numbers, thus
>: our use of the Ohms...
>
>I don't know about this one, but it doesn't sound right.

DAMN RIGHT it doesn't!  Ohm's come from the greek letter omega, which
is used for resistance/impedance.

Of course, the original poster MAY have been being facetious (let's hope
so).

Mark Neidengard
mneideng@cosmos.acs.calpoly.edu
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!rochester!udel!gatech!howland.reston.ans.net!noc.near.net!uunet!gatekeeper.us.oracle.com!barrnet.net!infoserv!gcarter
From: gcarter@infoserv.com (George Carter)
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Subject: Re: Does someone know what is the news group for IEEE.
Message-ID: <Pbe1rAdJBh107h@gcarter.infoserv.com>
Date: Wed, 21 Apr 93 20:29:03 -0800
References: <1993Apr19.192953.22874@usl.edu>
Reply-To: gcarter@infoserv.com
Distribution: usa
Organization: SFBAC
Lines: 11
X-Newsreader: Helldiver 1.07 (Waffle 1.64)

In <1993Apr19.192953.22874@usl.edu> yxy4145@ucs.usl.edu (Yu Yingbin) writes:
>       yxy4145@usl.edu     Thanks a lot.

ieee.general

and

ieee.announce


are the most frequently used groups.
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!noc.near.net!uunet!utcsri!newsflash.concordia.ca!mizar.cc.umanitoba.ca!bison!sys6626!inqmind!baden
From: baden@inqmind.bison.mb.ca (Baden de Bari)
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Subject: Blue LED's
Message-ID: <Zw6F3B1w165w@inqmind.bison.mb.ca>
Date: Fri, 23 Apr 93 01:44:34 CDT
Organization: The Inquiring Mind BBS  1 204 488-1607
Lines: 19

 
        So what's the story here... we're all stuck with the regular
green, red, and off yellow-orange LED's!?  What gives!!??
        Anybody have a 'scoop' on FAIRLY LOW PRICED >BLUE< LED's???

                        ... just out of curiosity, of course ...
 
 
  _________________________________________________
  Inspiration  |   ___                             |
  comes to     |  \   o  baden@sys6626.bison.mb.ca |
  those who    | (  ^  ) baden@inqmind.bison.mb.ca |
  seek the     |   /-\      =] Baden de Bari [=    |
  unknown.     |                                   |
  ------------------------------------------------- 
 

baden@inqmind.bison.mb.ca
The Inquiring Mind BBS, Winnipeg, Manitoba  204 488-1607
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!rochester!udel!bogus.sura.net!news-feed-1.peachnet.edu!gatech!howland.reston.ans.net!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!caen!destroyer!cs.ubc.ca!mprgate!mprgate.mpr.ca!vanderby
From: vanderby@mprgate.mpr.ca (David Vanderbyl)
Subject: Re: Question on addressing... (correction)
Message-ID: <1993Apr23.201414.14488@mprgate.mpr.ca>
Sender: news@mprgate.mpr.ca
Nntp-Posting-Host: chip
Reply-To: vanderby@mprgate.mpr.ca (David Vanderbyl)
Organization: MPR Teltech Ltd.
References:  <skelly.18c2@amiganet.chi.il.us> <1993Apr23.192657.13706@mprgate.mpr.ca>
Date: Fri, 23 Apr 1993 20:14:14 GMT
Lines: 4

A little correction on my previous post about an hour ago.
Please replace the term 'EEPROM' with the term 'EPROM' wherever it appears.
(Don't not why I added that extra 'E' every time.)

Xref: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu comp.os.msdos.programmer:23348 alt.msdos.programmer:6819 sci.electronics:54114
Newsgroups: comp.os.msdos.programmer,alt.msdos.programmer,sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!rochester!udel!gatech!howland.reston.ans.net!agate!news.ucdavis.edu!csus.edu!sfsuvax1.sfsu.edu!kschang
From: kschang@sfsuvax1.sfsu.edu (Kuo-Sheng (Kasey) Chang)
Subject: Re: How to the disks copy protected.
Message-ID: <1993Apr23.210145.1850@csus.edu>
Sender: news@csus.edu
Organization: San Francisco State University
References: <1993Apr22.163605.24784@csus.edu> <1993Apr23.102935.17390@miavx1.acs.muohio.edu>
Date: Fri, 23 Apr 1993 21:01:45 GMT
Lines: 93

In article <1993Apr23.102935.17390@miavx1.acs.muohio.edu>
sjmadsen@nextsrv.cas.muohio.edu (Steve Madsen) writes: 

backupable, if restored to the same machine >>(depends>> on the
programmer...  don't use a disk drive characteristic!) If the user >> did
an upgrade to the machine, he/she should reinstall all programs any way.
>> No document look-up, no disk wear-and-tear! > 

> This is not a good idea.. I upgraded my motherboard last fall.  I >would
have been quite pissed at any software that would have forced me to
>reinstall simply because I changed motherboards. >

Opinion is understandable.  :-)  I assume you have a tape drive?  Not all
of us have about 200 floppies around for backup, you know.  

> Any info in the BIOS is too volatile to use as a checksum.  Are you
>going to require that a user re-install all their software if they add
4Mb >of RAM to their computer?  I did that a couple of weeks ago.  It's in
the >BIOS, and if software had told me "this isn't the machine you
installed me >on" I would never have used that software again.  Really bad
idea. 

RAM is something you add all the time, so no.  It's more like BIOS
manufacturer and/or processor type (386/486/etc).  Data cannot be used,
esp with these new Flash ROM BIOS machines with updates on a diskette.

On the other hand, to make this LESS intrusive it could be disguised as
"Please Insert Original Disk #XX as I need file YYYYYY for update".  :-) 
It would be perfectly reasonable...  Sort of.

> >> I did not say that the originals would allow only one install.  The
user's >> conscience should do that. 

> > This is silly.  It's much easier to loan disks to a friend and let
>them do an install than to backup your copy already on disk, and then
give >them that.  Your scheme isn't going to stop anyone. 

Of course it is easier.  Are you saying then the originals SHOULD allow
only one install?  What is your point?

> >> You know how many bytes you need to change in X-wing to disable >>
the quiz?  TWO!  Yes, TWO!  (And don't ask me which ones they are.)

> > Do you know any assembly language at all?  All anyone needs to do if
>find the part of the code that does the quiz, and insert a JMP
instruction >to just completely skip it.  Not that difficult, really!  And
there is very >little that commpanies can do to stop this type of thing. 
Using PKLITE or >some similar utility would help, but only if the
resulting compressed .EXE >were tagged as uncompressable. 

I know x86 and 680x0 assembly quite well, thank you.  I know exactly which
two bytes need to be changed, I have the code to do them too.  I just said
"Don't ask me which ones."  I didn't say I don't know what that means.

Such hacking can be EASILY discouraged by adding anti-patching code which
does a self-check upon execution and refuse to load if CRC does not match
value stored (encrypted, of course) in the program.  It could be claimed
as a part of anti-virus code, and it would not be far from the truth. 

> >> What I believe the companies should do is implement the above plus >>
a special patch once the user registers that loudly exclaims upon bootup
>> "REGISTERED TO XXXXX -- address, city, state zip" and disables the
above. 

> > This is by far the best idea you presented in your post.  Making it
>plainly obvious who registered is going to stop casual pirates. But, the
>determined ones are just going to answer "Joe Blow" to the question of
>"what's your name" so this won't stop them in the long run. 

Did ANYONE read what I wrote?  That is NOT what I wrote! (or meant!)  

What I said was the program should have certain restriction (such as the
restrict-to-one-machine) UNTIL the program is registered with the
manufacturer.  The manufacturer will then supply the
then-proven-legitimate-user with a patch that will disable the restriction
and PROUDLY PROCLAIM the legal copy with the "Registered to XXX" screen.

> > Pirates are always going to win this fight.  They simply have more
>time to work on the software and figure out the protection scheme. 

Of course they will, but that was NOT my point.  The purpose of copy
protection is to discourage casual pirates ("Oh, can I have a copy of
that?"/"Sure, here.") and the less sophisticated pirates ("Let's look for
all those calls to INT13H...") .  Any one determined enough to break copy
protection can and will succeed.  They can always backtrace the entire
load-sequence of the program.  The point of copy protection is to make
such attempts take as long as possible while not intruding upon the uses
(or to minimize such intrusion) of legitimate use.  Pirates who see copy
protection as a challenge love breaking them, and no amount of copy
protection will stop them, but the rest of us WILL be stopped.  How many
of these hardcore pirates are there compared to rest of us?  Not that many.

--Kasey Chang
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!rochester!udel!gatech!howland.reston.ans.net!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu!ebraeden
From: ebraeden@magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu (Eric W Braeden)
Subject: What exactly is an IBM 486SLC processor?
Message-ID: <1993Apr23.213756.29528@magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu>
Sender: news@magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu
Nntp-Posting-Host: photon.magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu
Organization: The Ohio State University
Distribution: na
Date: Fri, 23 Apr 1993 21:37:56 GMT
Lines: 11

Could someone please tell me if the 486SLC and 486SLC2 processors
IBM is putting in their Thinkpad 700's and other PC's is a REAL
486 with a math coprocessor or if it is really some Kludge that
should not be called a 486 at all?

Thanks,
Eric
-- 
Eric W. Braeden                    | "Der Verstand war zwar praechtig
Ohio State University              | doch das Nuetzte am Ende nicht viel"
ebraeden@magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu | Peter Schilling   120 Grad    1983
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!rochester!udel!gatech!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!sdd.hp.com!news.cs.indiana.edu!bsu-cs!news.nd.edu!scarecrow.cse.nd.edu!jott
From: jott@scarecrow.cse.nd.edu (John Ott)
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Subject: RE: Food Deydrators
Message-ID: <1993Apr23.133139.27084@news.nd.edu>
Date: 23 Apr 93 13:31:39 GMT
Sender: news@news.nd.edu (USENET News System)
Reply-To: jott@scarecrow.cse.nd.edu (John Ott)
Organization: Univ. of Notre Dame
Lines: 26


Article: 41686 of sci.electronics
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: news.nd.edu!spool.mu.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!bogus.sura.net!news-feed-1.peachnet.edu!gatech!asuvax!ennews!mcdphx!schuch
From: schuch@phx.mcd.mot.com (John Schuch)
Subject: Food Dehydrators
Message-ID: <1993Apr19.154356.17880@phx.mcd.mot.com>
Sender: news@phx.mcd.mot.com
Nntp-Posting-Host: bopper2.phx.mcd.mot.com
Organization: Motorola Computer Group, Tempe, Az.
Distribution: usa
Date: Mon, 19 Apr 93 10:43:56 EST
Lines: 9

>  Does anybody out there have one of those food dehydrators I've been seeing
>all over late-night TV recently? I was wondering if they use forced air, heat,
>or both. If there's heat involved, anybody know what temperature they run at?
>My wife would like one and I'm not inclined to pay >$100.00 for a box, a fan
>and a heater. Seems to me you should be able to throw a dehydrator together
>for just a few bucks. Heck, the technology is only what? 1,000 years old?
>
>John

Try Mother Earth News, Feb/March 1993, pg 54, "Build a Food Dryer"

John
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!magnesium.club.cc.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!pacific.mps.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!sdd.hp.com!crash!cmkrnl!jeh
From: jeh@cmkrnl.com
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Subject: Re: Los Angeles Freeway traffic reports
Message-ID: <1993Apr23.143559.1876@cmkrnl.com>
Date: 23 Apr 93 14:35:59 PDT
References: <C5sLMB.9w6@cup.hp.com>
Organization: Kernel Mode Systems, San Diego, CA
Lines: 10

In article <C5sLMB.9w6@cup.hp.com>, dclaar@cup.hp.com (Doug Claar) writes:
> While driving through the middle of nowhere, I picked up KNBR, AM 1070,
> a clear-channel station based in Los Angeles. 

KNX AM, 1070 in LA, will be unhappy to hear about this, I'm sure. :-) 

(isn't KNBR in the bay area?)

        --- Jamie Hanrahan, Kernel Mode Systems, San Diego CA
Internet:  jeh@cmkrnl.com  Uucp: uunet!cmkrnl!jeh  CIS: 74140,2055
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!magnesium.club.cc.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!sample.eng.ohio-state.edu!purdue!haven.umd.edu!darwin.sura.net!wupost!sdd.hp.com!saimiri.primate.wisc.edu!caen!batcomputer!munnari.oz.au!newsroom.utas.edu.au!tasman.cc.utas.edu.au!adrian
From: adrian@tasman.cc.utas.edu.au (Adrian Lewis)
Subject: cleaning electronic equipment?
Message-ID: <adrian.735624685@tasman>
Sender: news@newsroom.utas.edu.au
Organization: University of Tasmania, Australia.
Date: Sat, 24 Apr 1993 04:11:25 GMT
Lines: 13

Hi,
        Just a quick question.  What standard lab solvents can be used to
clean electronic equipment and components safely (ie not corrode, dissolve,
short-out, etc the equipment)?
        water?  :-)
        methanol?
        CCl4?
        etc?
I am not an electronics type (surprise, surprise), and I want to avoid using
freons.

Thanks,         Adrian

Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!rochester!udel!gatech!asuvax!ennews!enuxha.eas.asu.edu!gsulliva
From: gsulliva@enuxha.eas.asu.edu (Glenn A Sullivan)
Subject: Re: Need help with video detection circuit
Message-ID: <1993Apr24.063757.21400@ennews.eas.asu.edu>
Summary: Build a cheap video detector
Sender: news@ennews.eas.asu.edu (USENET News System)
Organization: Arizona State University
References: <1993Apr20.182753.12440@jack.sns.com>
Date: Sat, 24 Apr 1993 06:37:57 GMT
Lines: 19

verity@jack.sns.com (Steve Verity) writes:
> I am trying to build a circuit that detects the presence of video (Vs.
> a blank screen) by monitoring the R,G, and B outputs of a graphics
> card.  It should be able to detect the presence of a single pixel at
> 65 MHz, which would mean detecting a 15 NS pulse.  It should also be
> able to tell the difference between a blank screen (about 300 mv)
> and a dim screen (say, around 310 mv).  Oh yes, it also needs to be
> cheap.  ............... In 
> fact the difference between completely black and completely white is
> only 650 mv.  I am wondering if I am going to have to amplify the
> video signals to make this work.  

Try a differential amplifier. Put back-to-back diodes between the collectors
restrict the voltage swing. Have 10 mA flow, with 500 ohm collector Rs, and
keep the stray C below 10 pF. Try 2N5179s. Run collector to your logic.
Allen Sullivan     



From: myers@hpfcso.FC.HP.COM (Bob Myers)
Date: Sat, 24 Apr 1993 05:24:20 GMT
Subject: Re: WD-40 as moisture repellant (was Lead Acid batteries & Concrete?)
Message-ID: <7480241@hpfcso.FC.HP.COM>
Organization: Hewlett-Packard, Fort Collins, CO, USA
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!magnesium.club.cc.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!cs.utexas.edu!sdd.hp.com!hpscit.sc.hp.com!hplextra!hpfcso!myers
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
References: <sasrer.735576383@cinnamon>
Lines: 17

> >Please explain how cement is able to maintain a lower average temperature
> >than dirt.  Sheesh.......
> 
I hope David isn't going to be too upset with me for sticking my nose
in here again, but here goes......:-)

It isn't the average temperature that is the key factor here, but rather
which is better at transferring the heat out of the (presumably warmer
than ground temperature) battery.  Call it a question of thermal
conductivity, or of insulating ability, or "thermal mass" - whatever you
like.  Question - why does a concrete floor feel cooler than the 
surrounding dirt when you place your hand on it?


Bob Myers  KC0EW   Hewlett-Packard Co.      |Opinions expressed here are not
                   Systems Technology Div.  |those of my employer or any other
myers@fc.hp.com    Fort Collins, Colorado   |sentient life-form on this planet.
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!andrew.cmu.edu!jh8e+
From: Joseph N Hosteny <jh8e+@andrew.cmu.edu>
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Subject: Re: Electric power line "balls"
Date: Tue,  6 Apr 1993 20:02:58 -0400
Organization: Freshman, Electrical and Computer Engineering, Carnegie Mellon, Pittsburgh, PA
Lines: 5
Distribution: usa
Message-ID: <QfkVcmK00iV3M96PkM@andrew.cmu.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: andrew.cmu.edu
In-Reply-To: <1993Apr6.203237.20841@eagle.lerc.nasa.gov>


    Do you know if there is an airport nearby? They may just be markers
to tell pilots of small planes that there are power lines nearby.

/Joe
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!cs.utexas.edu!not-for-mail
From: dmn@kepler.unh.edu (There's a seeker born every minute.)
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Subject: flash LEDs with sound?
Date: 24 Apr 1993 09:05:22 -0500
Organization: UTexas Mail-to-News Gateway
Lines: 29
Sender: daemon@cs.utexas.edu
Message-ID: <199304241405.AA11067@kepler.unh.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: cs.utexas.edu



     I'm looking for a circuit that will flash an led on in response 
to the output from a walkman cassette player. How could I do this?
I don't want it just to turn on, I want it to 'strobe' once so to speak,
per every beep I put on a cassette tape. 

     Would it be better to use a circuit based on the volume of the beeps
on the cassette, or better for the leds to respond to a tone of a certain
frequency? Is there any easy way to do either of these? I'm looking for 
the simplest circuit possible. I guess what I'm asking for is some sort of
color organ, but not quite. Let me trt to explain again...


     I'm going to have a pattern of beats (or beeps) on a cassette tape.
So on the tape you'd hear:   beep! (pause) beep! (pause) beep! (pause)..etc. 
, with speed increasing as time goes on. I want to synchronize an LED (
probably two of them) with the beeps on the cassette tape. So the LED, with
each beep, would go on and off real quick, generating a strobe light sort
of effect. The rapidity of the beeps on the tape would in turn effect the
rapidity of the blinking of the LEDS. And if there was no sound on the tape
(except for background his), the LEDs would remain off. Please help!


  Thanks,

    Dana


Xref: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu comp.graphics:38728 comp.os.msdos.misc:13170 comp.sys.ibm.pc.hardware:61214 comp.sys.ibm.pc.misc:34438 sci.electronics:54160
Newsgroups: comp.graphics,comp.os.msdos.misc,comp.sys.ibm.pc.hardware,comp.sys.ibm.pc.misc,sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!wupost!cs.utexas.edu!uunet!pipex!uknet!brunel!ee90dhg
From: ee90dhg@brunel.ac.uk (Dominic H Goode)
Subject: VGA Feature Connector
Message-ID: <C5ztun.1Js@brunel.ac.uk>
Organization: Brunel University, Uxbridge, UK
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL8]
Date: Sat, 24 Apr 1993 15:03:56 GMT
Lines: 75

Organization: Brunel University, Uxbridge, UK
Summary: 
Keywords: 


Subject: Video Feature Connector
Newsgroups: comp.sys.ibm.pc.hardware, comp.sys.ibmpc.misc, sci.electronics
Organization: Brunel University, Uxbridge, UK
Summary: 
Keywords: 
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.1 PL8]

Does anyone know how the VGA video feature connector operates? I
would like to know which of the pins are inputs, which are outputs,
and which are bidirectional (if any - and how the direction is
selected).

I have found a pinout for the connector:

Video Feature Connector Pinouts.

Pin     Name   Function
1       PD0    Dac Pixel data bit 0
2       PD1                   bit 1
3       PD2                   bit 2
4       PD3                       3
5       PD4                       4
6       PD5                       5
7       PD6                       6
8       PD7                       7
9       -      Dac Clock
10      -      Dac Blanking
11      -      Horizontal Sync
12      -      Vertical Sync
13      -      Ground

14      -      Ground
15      -      Ground
16      -      Ground
17      -      Select Internal Video
18      -      Select Internal Sync
19      -      Select Internal Dot Clock
20      -      Not Used
21      -      Ground
22      -      Ground
23      -      Ground
24      -      Ground
25      -      Not Used
26      -      Not Used

And I assume that pins 1 - 12 are outputs, and 17 - 19
are inputs. Is this correct?

The reason is this - I have a Rombo Media Pro+ video
digitising card. It chroma keys its output into the vga
monitor signal. However, although it is supposed to work
with an ET-4000 with Hi-colour RAMDAC, the colours on screen
behave as if the top 2 bits of colour information are missing,
and red, green, blue signals are swapped around.
Rombo has suggested that this may be due to insufficient
buffering on the feature connector outputs, and is happy to
sell me a buffer device for 50 pounds.
I would rather save about 45 pounds, and build my own. I assume
it would require (for example) a 74F244 buffer IC (or two).

Can anyone help? Any information on the feature connector would
be highly appreciated!

Please could you reply by email :

ee90dhg@brunel.ac.uk

because I am at home (easter holidays) and a 300 baud modem
is slow for reading news!

Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!magnesium.club.cc.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!news.acns.nwu.edu!uicvm.uic.edu!u19250
Organization: University of Illinois at Chicago, academic Computer Center
Date: Sat, 24 Apr 1993 14:28:35 CDT
From: <U19250@uicvm.uic.edu>
Message-ID: <93114.142835U19250@uicvm.uic.edu>
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Subject: multiple inputs for PC
Lines: 8

Can anyone offer a suggestion on a problem I am having?
I have several boards whose sole purpose is to decode DTMF tones and send
the resultant in ASCII to a PC.  These boards run on the serial interface.
I need to run * of the boards somwehat simultaneously.  I need to be able to ho
ok them up to a PC>  The problem is, how do I hook up 8+ serial devices to one
PC inexpensivley, so that all can send data simulataneously (or close to it)?
Any help would be greatly appreciated!
Abhin Singla
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!rochester!udel!news.udel.edu!darwin.sura.net!howland.reston.ans.net!torn!news.ccs.queensu.ca!qucdn!leek
Organization: Queen's University at Kingston
Date: Sat, 24 Apr 1993 21:18:18 EDT
From: <LEEK@QUCDN.QueensU.CA>
Message-ID: <93114.211818LEEK@QUCDN.QueensU.CA>
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Subject: Re: How to the disks copy protected.
References: <1rc4dbINNp44@phage.cshl.org> <C60DvH.FAn@ucdavis.edu>
Lines: 44

In article <C60DvH.FAn@ucdavis.edu>, ez019654@othello.ucdavis.edu (Victoria
Milliron) says:
>
>  A possibility for the software registration conondrum would be to have the
>distributor register the copy when the software was sold.  The clerk sticks it

That's kind of extra work that one cannot expect the store people to do.
IMHO it would be easier if companies sell their software as cheaply as
possible AND to sell the customers detail manuals (for the brain-deads)
, quick reference books, how to do books and videos, paid support hot line
(1-900 :).  For the registered purchasers, these can be part of their package.
I have seen many books to teach people how to use DOS, WP and other software.  I
I suspect either users can't read the manuals or they don't have manuals.
Either way, there is $$$ to be made.   BTW books are quite a bit more
expensive to reproduce than a $1 disk.

>What is the problem with parallel port security keys? I haven't used anything
>that had hardware key copy protection schemes, so I don't know what the
>drawbacks are. I know the companies that make them claim they're uncrackable,

With the popularity of Multitasking and pseudo multitasking systems
(eg. OS0.5, Windoze, Mack System 7), it is pretty easy to run a debugger
and figure out the protection schemes by disassembling/tracing/trapping
the application during run time.  Schemes like compressed software/
special loaders would be easy pray even to beginner hackers.

Hardware keys (unless well designed and *TOTALLY* transparent) is a
pain in the b*t.  We having using a piece of software under Windoze
that uses a hardware key.  The key interfers with the printer stuff
with other programs and often has to be unplugged for those software
to work properly.

>but I've seen cracks of AutoDesk 3d-studio floating around (I don't have one
>so don't ask) and I had heard that it had parralel port keys.

All the hacker has to do is to remove/modify code that communicate with
the port.

>vamilliron@othello.ucd.edu
>-my apologies if I rambled, but vi inhibits my communication skills greatly.

K. C. Lee
Elec. Eng. Grad. Student
OS0.5, Windoze, Mack are not trademarked...
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!magnesium.club.cc.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!gatech!usenet.ufl.edu!zeno.fit.edu!zach.fit.edu!ree88132
From: ree88132@zach.fit.edu (Keith Ledig)
Subject: needed: 120v 3watt fan
Message-ID: <C60rEK.Hyp@zeno.fit.edu>
Sender: news@zeno.fit.edu (USENET NEWS SYSTEM)
Nntp-Posting-Host: zach.fit.edu
Organization: Florida Institute of Technology, Melbourne, FL USA
Date: Sun, 25 Apr 1993 03:08:44 GMT
Lines: 14

Can someone tell me where to find 120volt 3 watt 40 mA fans that
fit the standard computer mounting size )ie. 3 and 1/8 inch wide
and 4 inches diagonal from hole to hole (hole=where bolt or screw
goes through.  I have found higher (NOISY) fans that are 120 v
6 watt, but I need a quite fan.  I can use 12 volt as well, but
found just about all 12 volt fans to be noisy.  I also find that
the 120 v fans are not only quieter, but the blade shape has a lot
to do with it.  I have a dead fan that was quiet in it's day.  It
has long blades (like fan blades in a tturbo engine on a jet is
the only way I can describe it.  The dead fan is ETRI Model 126LH.
Actually it's not dead, it just makes a hideous rattle noise so
it's stealthy qualities are void.  Thanks.


Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!rochester!udel!gatech!howland.reston.ans.net!noc.near.net!das-news.harvard.edu!endor!squish
From: squish@endor.uucp (Shishin Yamada)
Subject: Re: ATARI 2600 Processors
Message-ID: <1993Apr26.072040.13014@das.harvard.edu>
Sender: usenet@das.harvard.edu (Network News)
Organization: Aiken Computation Lab, Harvard University
References: <93110.125951PCA103@psuvm.psu.edu> <1993Apr21.081317.599@das.harvard.edu> <1r7e14$l2c@sunb.ocs.mq.edu.au>
Date: Mon, 26 Apr 1993 07:20:40 GMT
Lines: 71

In article <1r7e14$l2c@sunb.ocs.mq.edu.au> ifarqhar@laurel.ocs.mq.edu.au (Ian Farquhar) writes:
>In article <1993Apr21.081317.599@das.harvard.edu> squish@endor.uucp (Shishin Yamada) writes:
>>The Atari 2600 used a 6502 CPU, just like their entire 8-bit line
>>(400, 800,1200,1400, 1440, 130xe, 65xe computers, as well as the 5200
>>game machine). 
>
>Wrong, it has a 6507.

Sorry Ian, I haven't toyed with it in several years. I haven't seen
the insides in quite a few years. I just saw the post lagging for
quite a few days, and thought I'd toss in my $0.02. I assume the 6507
was functionally similar to the 6502 (was it also made by MOS
Technologies?). I really am more versed in the (6502 based) Atari
computers. The 2600 came later on.

>
>>The 2600 had some extra ASIC chips that were basically
>>modified graphics chips and PIA's for the joysticks. 
>
>It had one custome chip (not an ASIC in the sense that word is now understood):
>the TIA (sometimes known as the 6526, although most other manufacturers list
>that as the CIA complex interface adapter.)  TIA stands for Television
>Interface Adapter, and it handles sound, paddles and the minimal video hardware
>the 2600 possessed.

In the Atari computers, the "CIA" chip you refer to sounds an awful
lot like the CTIA (Color Television Interface Adapter) chip used in
the early models. Later Atari upgraded this to the GTIA (Graphics
...). Other colorful literature stated that the GTIA might have stood
for "George," the developer of the chip.

>
>There was also a standard 6532 RAM, I/O, Timer (RIOT), plus a voltage
>regulator and (if memory serves) a 555 timer.  That's all.
>
>>Later model 2600
>>might have incorporated many of the chips into one ASCI, as the weight
>>of the machines and part count decreased a lot over the years.
>
>Not according to the servicing documentation I have here.  The 2600 did not
>change intenally very much at all.

Funny, I had an old and new model. The old one was SIGNIFICANTLY heavier.

>>Additionally, I think the 2600 used 2K, 4K, and up to 8K of ROM for
>>their games. 
>
>ROMS were mapped into the upper 4K of the 6507's address space.  2K and 4K
>games were fine, but later 8K and 16K games needed bank switching.  Atari
>(and others) made much of these "huge" cartridges.
>
>>I have no idea how much RAM it had to work with, but I
>>would hazard a guess of 2 or 4K RAM. 

Sorry, I am way out of line here. My first microcontroller I built was
a MC68701 based chipset with 128 bytes onboard. That was not easy to
work with (in addtion to a small 2K on-board EPROM).

>Wrong, it had 128 bytes of RAM from the RIOT.  This was multiply mapped into
>both page 0 (pseudo-registers) and page 1 (stack), and also throughout the
>bottom 4K of memory.  TIA registers also sat in this address space.
>
>As 128 bytes of RAM was somewhat limiting, some later cartridges also carried
>RAM themselves, which was interesting as Atari had provided no write line
>to the cart.  This was managed by mapping the reads from RAM into one address
>range, and the writes into another, but all the time this scheme ate into
>the *very* scarce ROM address space.
>
>                                                       Ian.


Xref: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu soc.culture.usa:14001 soc.culture.europe:18539 soc.culture.nordic:18545 soc.culture.german:19832 sci.electronics:54224
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!rochester!udel!gatech!howland.reston.ans.net!ira.uka.de!news.dfn.de!mailgzrz.TU-Berlin.DE!cs.tu-berlin.de!sam!wd
From: wd@cs.tu-berlin.de (Wolfgang Diestelkamp)
Newsgroups: soc.culture.usa,soc.culture.europe,soc.culture.nordic,soc.culture.german,sci.electronics
Subject: Re: How universal are phones these days?
Date: 26 Apr 1993 10:20:23 GMT
Organization: Technical University of Berlin, Germany
Lines: 24
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <WD.93Apr26122020@sam.cs.tu-berlin.de>
References: <1rg36hINNsr6@darkstar.UCSC.EDU>
NNTP-Posting-Host: sam.cs.tu-berlin.de
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=iso-8859-1
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
In-reply-to: hugo@cats.ucsc.edu's message of 26 Apr 1993 07:32:33 GMT

In article <1rg36hINNsr6@darkstar.UCSC.EDU> hugo@cats.ucsc.edu (Hugo Calendar) writes:

> I'm wondering if I can tote my American touch tone phone around with me
> to Sweden and Germany.  It's DC powered, and I can buy a special adapter
> for that in Europe.  The question is if the general electronics work
> the same.  I can buy a different wall plug and refit it (I'm sure I'd
> have to), but would that do the trick?

Two things to watch for:
In Germany (and I think the same holds for Sweden) only some
of the connections can handle tone dialing, so make sure the
phone can be set to pulse dialing.
In Sweden, the '0' is the first digit and all other digits
are pushed "down" by one position; this makes dialing (and
in the process converting numbers) an interesting task.
Otherwise, it is technically no problem to connect a foreign
phone to either the German or Swedish phone system.
OTOH neither you nor I would ever try that, as it is of course
illegal.
-- 
Wolfgang Diestelkamp
wd@cs.tu-berlin.de
wolfgang@first.gmd.de

Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!rochester!udel!wupost!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!neoucom.edu!wtm
From: wtm@uhura.neoucom.edu (Bill Mayhew)
Subject: Re: Laser vs Bubblejet?
Message-ID: <1993Apr26.153312.10415@uhura.neoucom.edu>
Organization: Northeastern Ohio Universities College of Medicine
References: <735446880snx@black.demon.co.uk>
Date: Mon, 26 Apr 1993 15:33:12 GMT
Lines: 90

There is a cartridge capping upgrade for older deskjet printers
available from hewlett-packard.  Older original deskjet and
possibly deskjet 500 units may have a black plastic slide with
rubber capping components in the cartrige parking area on the right
side (viewed from front) of the printer.  Newer printers have a
gray or white plastic slide.  The black plastic slide can allow
your cartridge to dry out.  There was and may still be information
packaged with ink cartridges explaining the situation.  HP placed a
coupon for a free upgrade kit to modernize old deskjets to the new
capping mechanism.  I did this on my printer and did indeed find
that the cartidges now last longer.

I don't have the information handy.  I suggest contacting your
nearest HP service center for information on obtaining the kit.

HP has upgrade kits that consist of electronics and mechanical
components that vary depending on the starting level printer and
the level to which you wish to upgrade.  I upgraded my original
desket to a dekjet 500.  The kit was fairly expensive.  You are
likely better off selling your old printer and purchasing a new
deskjet 500 now that prices have declined so much.  Upgrading an
original deskjet to 500 requires a fair amount of skill, but no
soldering.  Upgrading a deskjet plus to a 500 is involves swapping
the processor card and changing a few minor parts.  Contact your HP
service center for further information.

The PCL language used by Deskjets is considerably different from
the PCL used by laser printers, especially the newer laser
printers.  The biggest problem is dumb laser drivers that send a
raster end command after each scan line.  This makes no material
difference for lasers, but causes the deskjet to print the
accumulated raster.  As you might guess, the result is hideously
slow printing.  The new DOS Wordperfect print deskjet drivers are
still guilty of this particular behavior.  From the way Wordperfect
works, this would not be easy to change.  Windows Wordperfect works
efficiently unless you use the DOS drivers instead of Windows'.

The PCL4 dialect used in the Laserjet IIIP allows compression that
permits a full page 300 dpi image to be rendered with only one
megabyte of memory.  An uncompressed image could be as large as
about 909 Kbytes, but the printer needs about 300K of memory for
its internal house-keeping.  Laserjet IV models support banded
printing that allows incrmental download of the image with
compression in limited memory situations.  Deskjet downloadable
fonts are not compatible with laserjet fonts.

A single page from a laserjet only requires about 20 seconds.  This
is faster than any but the most trivial printing from a deskjet
printer.  The presumption, of course, being that the laser printer
has completed its warm-up cyle.

Until ink chemistry is changed, wicking resulting in image
deterioration is unavoidable.  I won't use the word impossible, but
matching laser quality output from a deskjet printer is unlikely.
Chosing an appropriate paper type helps, but does not eliminate the
problem.

Laser printers are more wastful of energy and consumable
components.  HP does accept return of spent toner cartridges,
mitigating the material waste problem to a degree.  Energy waste
could use more work.  Warm-up times have decreased, allowing
stand-by current consumption to be significantly reduced in the
laserjet IV.

Kyocera produces a laser print engine that employs an amorphous
silicon imaging drum with a replacable toner system.  The image
drum is good for approximately 100K copies.  It is a very nice
print engine.  I wish HP used the Kyocera engine.  Kyocera also has
a neat modular paper source and stacker system.

The recommended duty cycle for a deskjet is significantly lower
than any of HP's laser printers.  The pick-up pressure rollers are
subject to wear and I case confirm eventually do wear out.  The
usual symptom is that the printer becomes reluctant to feed paper.
The paper feed is integrated in a transport mechanism that is a
single part from HP service.  Replacement cost for the transport is
almost $200.  The feed rollers are not separately replacable,
though it would not be a difficult job for a competent technician.
I have disassembled and reassembled the transport on my own printer.

It depends upon the application which printer is best for you.  If
you only print 5 or 10 pages a day and are satisfied with the
appearance of output, the deskjet is a very good choice.  As noted,
the deskjet 500 is my choice for personal use.


-- 
Bill Mayhew      NEOUCOM Computer Services Department
Rootstown, OH  44272-9995  USA    phone: 216-325-2511
wtm@uhura.neoucom.edu (140.220.1.1)    146.580: N8WED
Xref: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu misc.consumers:68107 sci.electronics:54248
Newsgroups: misc.consumers,sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!rochester!udel!bogus.sura.net!news-feed-1.peachnet.edu!gatech!howland.reston.ans.net!usc!sdd.hp.com!ux1.cso.uiuc.edu!csrd.uiuc.edu!s4.csrd.uiuc.edu!gornish
From: gornish@sp1.csrd.uiuc.edu (Edward H. Gornish)
Subject: Radar/Laser Detectors
Message-ID: <GORNISH.93Apr26111045@sp1.csrd.uiuc.edu>
Sender: news@csrd.uiuc.edu
Organization: Center for Supercomputing R&D
Date: 26 Apr 93 11:10:45
Lines: 18

What are people's opinions about laser detectors?  Escort makes a
laser detector, the Passport 1000, and claims it works fine.  However,
I've talked to some people who have said that it will only work if you
are lucky - i.e. if the cop happens to point his laser at a car in
front of you, and the laser beam happens to reflect back to your
detector.  Otherwise it won't work.  Regular radar, of course, travels
in all directions; hence it is more detectable.  Any comments?

Escort has a deal (till the end of April, I think), where if you buy
their wideband (Passport 3200 - X, K, Ka) and laser detectors, you'll
save $60 off of buying them separately.  In this case, the addition of
the laser detector over the Passport 3200 is only $40 (i.e. Passport
1000 normally costs $100).
--
Eddie Gornish
University of Illinois - Center for Supercomputing Research & Development

gornish@csrd.uiuc.edu
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!rochester!udel!wupost!cs.utexas.edu!utnut!torn!uunet.ca!imax!dave
From: dave@imax.imax.com (Dave Martindale)
Subject: Re: NTSC horiz & vert drive from black burst?
Message-ID: <1993Apr26.164319.14055@imax.imax.com>
Keywords: video 
Organization: Imax Corporation, Mississauga Canada
References: <jackp.735491442@netsys.com>
Date: Mon, 26 Apr 1993 16:43:19 GMT
Lines: 21

jackp@NETSYS.COM (Jack Powers) writes:
>I would like to hook up some cameras that were recently donated to our
>local community cable TV station which have sync inputs in the form
>of horizontal and vertical drive. Our station sync is a black burst
>which works fine with other boxes with "genlock" style inputs. Can
>anyone point me at a design, article, or whatever showing how to produce
>the horizontal & vertical drive signals?

Check the station's master sync generator.  You'll probably find that
it already has horizontal and vertical drive outputs that just aren't
being used.  A couple of cables and you're in business.

Another possibility is to find a genlockable sync generator with HD and VD
outputs - genlock it to station sync, and then feed HD and VD to the
cameras.

If neither of these is possible, then you'll have to build a sync
separator.  Look at the circuit diagrams of your existing sync generators -
they probably all include circuitry that does what you want.

        Dave
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!rochester!udel!gatech!concert!uvaarpa!murdoch!kelvin.seas.Virginia.EDU!dgj2y
From: dgj2y@kelvin.seas.Virginia.EDU (David Glen Jacobowitz)
Subject: Dumb Question: Function Generator
Message-ID: <C5J845.3B8@murdoch.acc.Virginia.EDU>
Originator: dgj2y@kelvin.seas.Virginia.EDU
Sender: usenet@murdoch.acc.Virginia.EDU
Organization: University of Virginia
Date: Thu, 15 Apr 1993 15:52:52 GMT
Lines: 35


        I have a new scope and I thought I'd save a few bucks by
buying one with a function generator built in. After having it awhile
I noticed two things about the function generator. For one, there
seems to be a bias even when the 'pull-offset' is pushed in. That is,
I have to pull that know and adjust it to get a signal sans some
random 50mV bias.
        The other _really_ annoying thing is that the damn output
won't go below about 1V p-p. I am a student ( you may have guessed
from my previous posts ), and I often have to measure the input
impedances of various circuits I build.Many of the circuits have
maximum input signals of way less than 500mV amplitude and most have
input impedances in the 10's of Kohm range. The thing is, in order to
use my function generator I have to divide the voltage to some thing
reasonable. Then, of course, to measurethe input impedance of my
circuit I am going to have to throw in another resistor in series.
With the 50ohm output of the generator I could just ignore it, but now
with this little divider there I have to figure that in. It's kind of
a pain in  the ass.
        Is there any way I could make myself a little box that could
solve this little problem. The box would tkae the function generator
input, lower the voltage and give an output impedance that is some
low, unchanging number. I would want to lower the voltage by a factor
of one hundred or so. I could just build a little buffer amp, but I'd
like to have this box not be active.
        Any quick ideas. The scope's not broken. For other reasons I
had sent it to the shop to get repaired and they replaced it. The
function generator was the same way on that one, too.

                        please help as I am feeling very stupid 
                        today,

                                                dave 
                                                dgj2y@virginia.edu

Xref: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu comp.os.msdos.programmer:23432 alt.msdos.programmer:6872 sci.electronics:54265
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!rochester!udel!darwin.sura.net!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!uwm.edu!msuinfo!agate!doc.ic.ac.uk!warwick!zaphod.crihan.fr!pipex!uknet!mcsun!sunic!isgate!krafla!einari
From: einari@rhi.hi.is (Einar Indridason)
Newsgroups: comp.os.msdos.programmer,alt.msdos.programmer,sci.electronics
Subject: Re: How to the disks copy protected.
Message-ID: <6861@krafla.rhi.hi.is>
Date: 26 Apr 93 18:03:44 GMT
References: <1993Apr23.171020.23982@csus.edu> <Apr23.223805.66909@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU> <1993Apr26.163640.27632@csus.edu>
Sender: usenet@rhi.hi.is
Followup-To: comp.os.msdos.programmer
Lines: 60
Nntp-Posting-Host: hengill.rhi.hi.is

In <1993Apr26.163640.27632@csus.edu> kschang@sfsuvax1.sfsu.edu (Kuo-Sheng (Kasey) Chang) writes:

>In article <Apr23.223805.66909@yuma.ACNS.ColoState.EDU>
>jmiller@terra.colostate.edu (Jeff Miller) writes: 

>>In an earlier article Kasey Chang wrote:

>>: Nothing, but if you read my WHOLE suggestion, I'm saying that you register
>>: via MAIL by mailing in your registration card, THEN the company send you
>>: the patch which includes the info you put on the registration card.

>>The problem with this scheme, is that when I buy a game, I want to play it
>>*THAT* day...mailing a card to and from California would probably take a week
>>or more.

>I didn't say the program is DISABLED, did I?  (I HATE!!!! it when people
>take my words out of context...)  I mean that once you have installed it,
>you cannot DEinstall it without registering it, or transfer it to another
>machine, or SOME SORT OF LIMITATION (the author will decide), WHICH WILL
>BE REMOVED WHEN THE PROGRAM IS REGISTERED.  


WHAT??!!!!

You can't remove it, unless you register?  
You gotta be joking, right?
What happens if I get a demo-version of that program, install it, and then
decide that I don't like it.  Do I have to register to be able to get rid
of it?  (Hell, no, that is the last thing I would think of!)
If that is what you mean, then you would better make pretty sure, that a
statement to that effect is printed loud and clear on the package!


A better way to implement the above mentioned scheme is (IMHO) to allow
anyone to install the program, but if they register, they get some
additional features enabled.  It could mean only one new .EXE file needed
to be copied, to have got the full-version of the program.
Of course anyone is _free_ to _delete_ or _remove_ that program at whatever
time they like.

Still, we face the trouble of 'moving' the new .EXE file around.  That
could be solved by having the user registering him self, and get back a
specially marked for him (or her) a new .exe file.


As for some sort of limitations, here are some suggestions:
Limit the size of data that the program can work with,
Disable saving the data,
Print it out with some defects in the output (but be sure to mark them as
such)
Let some pop-up screen appear for ca. 10 secs. when the program is started
and/or exited

etc....
but DON'T have it that you _must_ register to be able to remove it.



--
einari@rhi.hi.is
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!magnesium.club.cc.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!darwin.sura.net!bogus.sura.net!news-feed-1.peachnet.edu!umn.edu!lynx.unm.edu!mimbres.cs.unm.edu!nmt.edu!backbone        %s@ncar.ucar.edu!erickson
From: erickson@azure.nmt.edu (Alan Erickson)
Subject: PC parallel I (!= I/O)
Message-ID: <1993Apr26.110250.5243@nmt.edu>
Sender: erickson@azure (Alan Erickson)
Nntp-Posting-Host: azure
Organization: New Mexico Tech
Date: Mon, 26 Apr 1993 11:02:50 GMT
Lines: 14

        I'm trying to bring in 8+ bits to a PC, and would like
        to use interrupt-driven routines. Without buying an IO
        board or making a new port, _where_ can I bring in these
        bits? LPT seems to have only a few inputs, but I've heard
        rumours that some LPTs have bidirectional lines. Anybody
        know fer sure? If any bi-d LPTs, which boards have them
        (I'll be running a new 386DX-33)?

------------------------------------------------------------------
Alan Erickson   erickson@baltic.nmt.edu         

to all SunRayce '93 competitors: I hope you're getting
about as much sleep as I am.....
------------------------------------------------------------------
Xref: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu soc.culture.usa:14142 soc.culture.europe:18584 soc.culture.nordic:18619 soc.culture.german:19911 sci.electronics:54305
Newsgroups: soc.culture.usa,soc.culture.europe,soc.culture.nordic,soc.culture.german,sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!rochester!udel!bogus.sura.net!news-feed-1.peachnet.edu!umn.edu!gaia.ucs.orst.edu!wsrcc.com!wetware!spunky.RedBrick.COM!psinntp!psinntp!panix!mpoly
From: mpoly@panix.com (Michael S. Polymenakos)
Subject: Re: How universal are phones these days?
Message-ID: <C647AI.51J@panix.com>
Organization: Macedonia: 3,000 years of Greek Heritage
References: <1rg36hINNsr6@darkstar.UCSC.EDU> <WD.93Apr26122020@sam.cs.tu-berlin.de> <LHE.93Apr26131014@yang.sics.se>
Date: Mon, 26 Apr 1993 23:44:41 GMT
Lines: 19

In <LHE.93Apr26131014@yang.sics.se> lhe@sics.se (Lars-Henrik Eriksson) writes:

>Most (if not virtually all) swedish exchanges can handle tone
>dialling. Many older electromechanical exchanges have been modified
>accept tone dialling.

 I would not be suprised if the equipment is compatible, in fact New York
Telephone (NYNEX) spend a lot of money on Swedish switching equipment
recently.

>Lars-Henrik Eriksson                            Internet: lhe@sics.se

 You can guess what brand of equipment I refer to :-)

Michael
-- 
______________________________________________________________________________
             In this land, said the god; "who seeks shall find; 
        Who sits with folded hands or sleeps is blind." - Sophocles
Xref: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu misc.consumers.house:46266 sci.electronics:54306
Newsgroups: misc.consumers.house,sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!rochester!udel!wupost!howland.reston.ans.net!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!sdd.hp.com!hpscit.sc.hp.com!cupnews0.cup.hp.com!news1.boi.hp.com!hp-pcd!hpcvaac!billn
From: billn@hpcvaac.cv.hp.com (bill nelson)
Subject: Re: Power, signal surges in home...
Message-ID: <1993Apr27.051611.4894@hpcvaac.cv.hp.com>
Organization: Hewlett-Packard Company, Corvallis, Oregon USA
References: <1993Apr26.045628.5617@hpcvaac.cv.hp.com>
Date: Tue, 27 Apr 1993 05:16:11 GMT
Lines: 16

I wrote:

: : bit of it, you could take the tape over to a local ham operator's house
: : and ask him for his opinion of what you're hearing.  Most communities
: 
: You cannot do that legally. However, you can ask a ham over to listen.
: If the interference occurs at a specific time each day, then it would
: be possible to do such scheduling.  If nothing else, you could invite
: the ham over to transmit from your driveway, to see if he interferes.
: If he does, then you probably need to have your equipment worked on to
: make it immune to rf interference.

As a coupld of people have pointed out - this is wrong. It is not illegal
to record or disclose what you heard on the Ham bands. 

Bill
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!uunet!utcsri!newsflash.concordia.ca!sifon!cidsv01.cid.aes.doe.ca!newsfeed.sx.mont.nec.com!ynecgan
From: ynecgan@sx.mont.nec.com (Greg Neill)
Subject: Wanted: source for tuning capacitors
Message-ID: <1993Apr26.185902.765@sx.mont.nec.com>
Keywords: capacitors, tuning
Organization: HNSX SuperComputers, Mtl, PQ
Distribution: America
Date: Mon, 26 Apr 1993 18:59:02 GMT
Lines: 23


Hello there.  The other day I was feeling a tad nostalgic and thought
about constructing an old-time crytal radio set.  I figured on
substituting a modern germanium diode for the crystal, and winding the
antenna coil, etc., myself.

The only problem I seem to have is in locating a source for a tuning
capacitor -- you know, the old meshed-plate variable condensers which
used to be the mainstay for tuning circuits.  Well these things seem to
be all but extinct in their original catalog habitats.  Trimmer
capacitors are relatively abundant, but are not really suitable for this
application.

So, can anyone point me to a supplier of tuning capacitors in the 
0--360 pF range?

Manythanks.

-- 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Greg Neill,               | ounce (ouns), n. - The standard unit of
HNSX Supercomputers   Inc.|   prevention, equal to one pound of cure.
gneill@cid.aes.doe.ca     | 
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!magnesium.club.cc.cmu.edu!pitt.edu!uunet!vnet.IBM.COM
From: jmichael@vnet.IBM.COM
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Subject: Re: solvent for duct-tape adhesive
Message-ID: <19930427.060713.357@almaden.ibm.com>
Date: 27 Apr 93 13:00:18 GMT
Lines: 8

Acetone will likely damage the carpet. First solvent to try is denatured
alcohol. Do not waste your time with rubbing alcohol. You can use methyl
alcohol instead of denatured alcohol. If you want to have a cocktail while
you are removing the goo, use pure grain alcohol :-). If the alcohol does
not work try carbon tetrachloride. If neither of these work you may need to
try a stronger solvent, but the alcohol works for most adhesives. Good luck.

Jim
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!magnesium.club.cc.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!pacific.mps.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!sdd.hp.com!nigel.msen.com!fmsrl7!lynx.unm.edu!dns1.NMSU.Edu!dns1.NMSU.Edu!usenet
From: mcole@spock (COLE)
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Subject: Disk drive read & write
Date: 27 Apr 1993 15:50:06 GMT
Organization: New Mexico State University
Lines: 5
Message-ID: <1rjkneINN6aa@dns1.NMSU.Edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: spock.nmsu.edu

I am working on a project and am in need of information regarding the  
currents (at the head) needed to write to a hard drive and the currents  
produced when reading.  If anyone has information it would be much  
appreciated.
mcole@nmsu.edu
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!crabapple.srv.cs.cmu.edu!bb3.andrew.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!pacific.mps.ohio-state.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!noc.near.net!uunet!news.larc.nasa.gov!grissom.larc.nasa.gov!kludge
From: kludge@grissom.larc.nasa.gov (Scott Dorsey)
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Subject: Re: Pressure Zone Microphones
Date: 27 Apr 1993 17:13:04 GMT
Organization: NASA Langley Research Center and Reptile Farm
Lines: 43
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <1rjpj0INNo78@rave.larc.nasa.gov>
References: <1rjobdINNk1s@crcnis1.unl.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: grissom.larc.nasa.gov

In article <1rjobdINNk1s@crcnis1.unl.edu> mpaul@unl.edu (marxhausen paul) writes:
>I remember, back before commercial mikes with the "PZM" label (for
>Pressure Zone Microphone) started showing up, I read an article,
>in some engineering journal, that described the principles involved.
>All the physics aside, from a practicle standpoint the author's said
>they built a prototype with nothing more than a small Sony lavelier
>mike laid up against a large aluminum disk.  In demonstrating it at
>a presentation to audio engineers, this was impressive enough that
>the people present were bugging them about where they could buy them.

Yup, it's not all that difficult to do.

>Anyway...I want to build some to use as "choir mikes" (wide coverage).
>I've had good luck using some small electret mike elements I got
>from Digi-Key - most of these are limited-bandwidth, peakey units
>but for a buck or two more I got the ones spec'd to go out to 20kHz
>with a bit flatter response.  

The Panasonic cartridges aren't bad, but they aren't spectacular.

>The distance of the mike opening from the flat plate is kind of
>critical.  I'm debating whether to mount it on it's side, which
>puts the opening a shade under 2mm from the plate, or mounting
>it with the opening actually pointing down into the plate at a
>small clearance.  I haven't dissected a unit like you can buy at
>Radio Shack to see how they do it.  Thoughts?

Don't mount it on the side.  Call up Crown, the company that has the
patent on the PZM, and ask them for information on construction and
use of the things.  You may have to determine the correct spacing
emperically with a noise source and a spectrum analyzer because the
design of the Panasonic cartridges uses a tuned cavity in front of
the electret element to increase the high frequency response, and you
are going to be altering the resistance through the cavity entrance.

Crown has a nice book on the subject, though it's unfortunately rather
short on mathematics.  There's a JAES article from many years back, too.

Still, for your application, you'll be a lot better off buying the cheap
Radio Shack models and using Phil Rastoczny's modifications to get a
clean balanced output.  Phil's mods seem to get reposted here on a regular
basis.
--scott
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!magnesium.club.cc.cmu.edu!news.sei.cmu.edu!fs7.ece.cmu.edu!europa.eng.gtefsd.com!howland.reston.ans.net!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!moe.ksu.ksu.edu!crcnis1.unl.edu!mpaul
From: mpaul@unl.edu (marxhausen paul)
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Subject: Re: Passive Mixer
Date: 29 Apr 1993 12:42:39 GMT
Organization: University of Nebraska--Lincoln   
Lines: 32
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <1roifvINNd9n@crcnis1.unl.edu>
References: <C665M4.4u1@acsu.buffalo.edu> <C678o5.ED0@unx.sas.com> <1rmk8t$8l0@cat.cis.Brown.EDU> <1rmsbuINN59f@MINERVA.CIS.YALE.EDU>
NNTP-Posting-Host: unlinfo.unl.edu

shaffer-wendy@yale.edu (Wendy Shaffer) writes:

>I'm trying to build a mixer for a friend of mine to run several things into
>a single boom box.  I have a circuit that uses an op-amp powered by either a
>couple of 9V batteries or using some kind of power supply.  But in a catalog
>I was looking at recently, a "passive mixer" for guitar was advertised taht
>doesn't appear to use any power at all.  Does anyone know what the circuit for
>this would be, because then I could just adapt it for RCA jacks, and save my
>friend and I alot of messing with batteries and plugs.  Thanks.

Well, the fastest, crudest mixer (aside from just physically connecting
all your inputs together directly) is to run each signal through a 
resistor to a common output.  The resistors give some isolation so the
signal sources aren't driving directly into each other. 

Taking a wild, seat-of-the-pants guess, I'd say that if you are mixing
high-impedance sources like some dynamic mikes, electric guitar pickups,
etc., your resistors ought to be maybe 5K - 10K or so.  If you are mixing
line-level stuff or the outputs of a Walkman, or such, I'd go with 1K.

input 1 --/\/\/\/ -------------+--- output
                               |
input 2 --/\/\/\/\-------------+
                               |
input 3 --/\/\/\/\-------------+


--
paul marxhausen .... ....... ............. ............ ............ .......... 
 .. . .  . . . university of nebraska - lincoln .  . . .. . .  .. . . . . . . .
 .     .    .  .   .     .   .  .    .   .  .   .    .   .  grace .   .    .  . 
   .         .       .      .        .        .      .        .   happens .     
Newsgroups: sci.electronics
Path: cantaloupe.srv.cs.cmu.edu!das-news.harvard.edu!noc.near.net!howland.reston.ans.net!wupost!uwm.edu!linac!uchinews!att-out!cbfsb!cbnewsf.cb.att.com!rdell
From: rdell@cbnewsf.cb.att.com (richard.b.dell)
Subject: Re: Lead ACid Batteries Part 2!!!
Message-ID: <C6728H.Luy@cbfsb.cb.att.com>
Sender: news@cbfsb.cb.att.com
Organization: AT&T
References: <1993Apr26.050848.1@ulkyvx.louisville.edu> <1993Apr26.221422.17208@mprgate.mpr.ca> <1993Apr27.211036.1@ulkyvx.louisville.edu>
Date: Wed, 28 Apr 1993 12:48:17 GMT
Lines: 39

In article <1993Apr27.211036.1@ulkyvx.louisville.edu> jhwhit01@ulkyvx.louisville.edu writes:
>In article <1993Apr26.221422.17208@mprgate.mpr.ca>, vanderby@mprgate.mpr.ca (David Vanderbyl) writes:
>
<lots of stuff deleted>

>The lead-acid secondary cell discharge reaction is EXOTHERMIC.  I am glad
>you do not dispute this point.  If you don't want the lead storage battery
>to discharge, it should be stored such that its charged state is the
>equilibrium state.  During winter, the ground, be it covered with
>concrete, dirt, or wood, maintains a cooler temperature on average than
>the surrounding air or the battery.  The heat capacity of air is less than
>that of concrete, dirt, or wood, so it heats faster.  Conversely, air cools
>faster, too.
>
>The normal storage procedure for a battery is to leave it in an unheated
>garage or basement.  The storage surface is often cooler than the
>surrounding air, with the battery temperature somewhere in-between.  E.g.,
>the basement air temperature may be 70 F, the floor temperature 65 F, and
>the battery temperature 66 F.
>
>The air temperature is HIGHER than the battery temperature.  The heat of
>reaction is not going to move up the gradient.  The floor temperature is
>LOWER than the battery temperature, and heat is going to move to it.  The
>floor is an incredible heat sink.
>

Might depend on where you live .. I know locally, for most of the winter
the ground, and concrete floor, within sheds and garages (unheated) is
signifacantly warmer than the average air temperature.  The air does get
warmer during the day, but during the night, the ground and concrete
is definitely warmer, especially when protected by the walls from the
albedo effect.  And the nights are longer by several hours than the
days.

<rest of quoted text deleted>
>
>Jeff White       jhwhit01@ulkyvx.louisville.edu

Richard Dell
